STS Policies Manual 

Social Media Policy 

V1 - 2020 

 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 32: SOCIAL MEDIA 

INTRODUCTION  

This policy provides guidance for employee use of social media, which should be broadly understood for purposes 
of this policy to include blogs, microblogs, message boards, chat rooms, electronic newsletters, online forums, social 
networking sites, and other sites and services that permit users to share information with others in a 
contemporaneous manner. 

PROCEEDURE 

•  The following principles apply to professional use of social media on behalf of STS company as well as 

personal use of social media when referencing STS. 

•  Employees need to know and adhere to the [Company’s Code of Conduct, Employee Handbook, STS 

Culture, and other company policies] when using social media in reference to STS. 

•  Employees are prohibited from publishing any internal communications addressed directly or indirectly to 
their own accounts on social networking platforms, and this is stated in the non-disclosure agreement 
signed by the employee prior to joining the work. 

•  Employees should be aware of the effect their actions may have on their images, as well as STS company 
image, as  the information that employees post or publish may be public information for a long time.  
•  Employees should be aware that STS Management may observe content and information made available by 
employees through social media in matters relating to STS. Employees should use their best judgment in 
posting material that is neither inappropriate nor harmful to STS, its employees, or customers. 

•  Although not an exclusive list, some specific examples of prohibited social media conduct include posting 
commentary, content, or images that are defamatory, inappropriate, proprietary, harassing, libelous, or 
that can create a hostile work environment.  

•  Employees are not to publish post or release any information that is considered confidential or not public. If 

there are questions about what is considered confidential, employees should check with the Human 
Resources Department and/or supervisor.  

•  Social media networks, blogs and other types of online content sometimes generate press and media 
attention or legal questions. Employees should refer these inquiries to authorized STS spokespersons 
or/and to Marketing Management. 
If employees find or encounter a situation while using social media that threatens to become antagonistic, 
employees should disengage from the dialogue in a polite manner and seek the advice of a supervisor.  

• 

•  Employees should get appropriate permission before you refer to or post images of current or former 

employees, members, vendors or suppliers. Additionally, employees should get appropriate permission to 
use a third party's copyrights, copyrighted material, trademarks, service marks or other intellectual 
property.  

•  Social media use should not interfere with employee’s responsibilities at STS. STS computer systems are to 
be used for business purposes only. When using STS’ company computer systems, use of social media for 
business purposes is allowed (ex: Facebook, Twitter, [Company] blogs and LinkedIn), but personal use of 
social media networks or personal blogging of online content is prohibited and could result in disciplinary 
action in accordance with STS bylaw.  

•  Subject to applicable law, after‐hours online activity that violates [the Company’s Code of Conduct and 

bylaws] or any other company policy may subject an employee to disciplinary action.. If employees publish 
content after‐hours that involves work or subjects associated with STS, a disclaimer should be used, such as 
this: “The postings on this site are my own and may not represent STS’ positions, strategies or opinions.”  
It is highly recommended that employees keep STS company related social media accounts separate from 
personal accounts, if practical. 

• 

 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS Policies Manual 

IT Policy 

V1 ‐ 2021 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 22: IT Policy 

22 

Information Technology Policy 

1.  INTERNET AND INTERNET SERVICES 

Policy 

The Internet may be used solely for purposes that benefit STS and that are directly applicable to an employee’s job 
function and authority. 

A 

GUIDELINES 

I. 

II. 

III. 
IV. 

V. 

VI. 

The Internet may be accessed only through an Internet service provider engaged by STS or another form of 
Internet access provided by STS. Accessing the Internet through means other than that provided by STS (e.g. 
dial‐up modem, USB WiMax) is not allowed. 
All downloads from the Internet are prohibited unless related to work. Audio/Video files are blocked, except 
from sites related to work (e.g. sites like Dell, Cisco, Microsoft, IBM, SUN, Symantec, etc.) 
Using anonymous proxy or tools/applications in order to bypass the firewalls of STS is not allowed 
STS’s IT department has the right to monitor Internet usage for each employee and to discover any link that 
he/she has accessed. 
It is preferred that any work‐related downloads take place during off‐working periods, especially for those 
files with large sizes. 
The following web site categories are prohibited to access: 

• Adult sites 
• Social Forums & Communities – IT related sites excluded 
• Violence & Weapons promoting sites 
• Internet Radio & TV 
• Internet Telephony 
• Peer‐to‐Peer file sharing 
• Streaming Media – audio / video 
• Personal Network Storage & Backup 
• Drugs promoting sites 
• Gambling 
• Games online 
• Web Chat 
• Racism, Extremism & Hate promoting sites 
• Security PG sites – key loggers, malicious websites, phishing & fraud, spyware. 
• Personals & Dating sites 

 
 
 
 
 
 
VII. 

Employees are responsible for exercising good judgment regarding the reasonableness of personal use of the 
Internet system. 

2. ELECTRONIC MAIL 

Policy 

E‐mail is a corporate asset and may be used solely for purposes that benefit STS and by authorized individuals. 

Guidelines 

I. 
II. 

E‐mail is a corporate resource and may be used solely for purposes that directly benefit STS. 
E‐mail may not be used: 

1.  To provide corporate information or corporate performance information without prior written consent of 

management, 

2.  To distribute material that contradicts or is in violation of STS policies, 
3.  To conduct personal business beyond what is reasonable and usual during the course of a business day. 
4.  For the creation or distribution of any disruptive or offensive messages, including offensive comments about 
race, gender, disabilities, age, adult material, religious beliefs and practice, political beliefs, or national origin. 

5.  Sending chain letters. 

III. 

Access to e‐mail is limited to those expressly authorized by STS. E‐mail accounts are opened only by specific 
request from HR and the employee’s direct manager. 

IV.  Mailbox storage on the server is limited to 200 MB per user; however, exceptions could be applied, if urgent, 

V. 
VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 

per the recommendation of the Board of Directors. 
Email attachments are limited to maximum of 10 MB Inbound/Outbound. 
Emails could be sent out to 10 recipients maximum by default. Exceptions are made based on justified 
requests. 
Archiving old emails on Personal Outlook Folder (*.pst), to be stored on the client’s hard disk, is very 
important and highly recommended. 
STS archives all incoming and outgoing e‐mails for business‐related reasons and may be accessed from time 
to time. 

3.  SYSTEM & NETWORK ACTIVITY 

Policy 

The following system & network activities  are, in general, not allowed. Employees  may  be exempted from these 
restrictions  during  the  course  of  their  legitimate  job  responsibilities  (e.g.  systems  administration  staff  at  IT 
Department may have a need to disable the network access of a host if that host is disrupting services). 

Guidelines 

I. 

All software and systems to be used at STS (e.g. Windows, MS‐Office, Anti‐Virus, etc.) must be legally licensed. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II. 

III. 

IV. 
V. 
VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 

IX. 

X. 
XI. 

XII. 

Introduction of malicious programs into the network or server (e.g., viruses, worms, Trojan horses, e‐mail 
bombs, etc.), is not allowed. 
All  firewalls,  routers,  switches,  and  servers  are  administered  by  the  IT  Department  only.  Access  to  these 
network  components  by  all  other  STS  users  is  not  allowed,  unless  with  full  supervision  of  the  Network 
Administrator. The exception for this rule applies to the “Software Services Division”, as their team will act as 
first line of administration of their servers and the IT Department as a second line of administration. 
Installing and configuring access points and/or switches are not allowed for any purposes. 
Using third‐party Proxy applications are not allowed. 
All users at STS must be joined on the domain of STS. The domain joint is the direct responsibility of the IT 
Department. Workgroups will not be allowed. 
Revealing your account password to others or allowing use of your account by others could jeopardize the 
security of STS’ network and systems. 
Accessing data of which the employee is not intended to access or logging into a server or account that the 
employee is not expressly authorized to access; is not allowed. 
Disruption of the network includes, but is not limited to, network sniffing, pinged floods, packet spoofing, 
denial of service, and forged routing information for malicious purposes; is not allowed. 
Port scanning or security scanning is not allowed. 
Using any program/script/command, or sending messages of any kind, with the intent to interfere with, or 
disable, a user's terminal session, via any means, locally or via the Internet/Intranet is not allowed, except for 
the Network Administrator. 
Kaspersky Anti‐Virus must be installed to any Desktop or laptops for STS’s employees and to be accomplished 
by IT Department supervision 

4.  DATA SECURITY Policy 

Every employee or company/individual hired by STS is responsible for the corporate resources entrusted to them. 
Due diligence and care should be exercised to ensure the security and integrity of these corporate resources, including 
but not limited to corporate data and corporate information systems. 

Guidelines 

I. 

II. 
III. 
IV. 

NEVER open any files or macros attached to an email from an unknown, suspicious or untrustworthy source. 
Delete these attachments immediately, then "double delete" them by emptying your Trash. 
Delete spam, chain, and other junk email without forwarding. 
Avoid direct disk sharing with read/write access unless there is absolutely a business requirement to do so. 
Saving Personal files or any non‐work‐related files (including but not limited to outlook PST files, Audio/Video 
files, EXE files) on Shared folders (Servers) is not allowed. All such files will be deleted by the administrator 
without prior notice. In addition, backup will not be taken for such files. 

5.  PHYSICAL SECURITY Policy 

I. 

II. 

III. 

IV. 

All STS Servers are located in STS Data Center which is secured by Access Door system and surveillance system, 
access is restricted to only the authorized staff. 
STS network infrastructure components (switches, routers,…..etc.) are installed in secured cabinets and 
switches rooms. 
Access Door System is implemented to secure STS premises from unauthorized physical access, this system is 
controlled by magnetic smartcards and management software.   
Security Guards are available to maintain STS physical security on 24x7 bases. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  PASSWORDS Policy 

Passwords are an important aspect of computer security. They are the front line of protection for user accounts. A 
poorly chosen password may result in the compromise of STS’ entire corporate network. As such, all STS employees 
are responsible for taking the appropriate steps, as outlined below, to select and secure their passwords. 

Guidelines 

i.  General Password Construction 

A.  Poor, weak passwords have the following characteristics: 

1.  The password contains less than eight characters 
2.  The password is a word found in a dictionary (English or foreign) 
3.  The password is a common usage word such as: 

a)  Names of family, pets, friends, co‐workers, fantasy characters, etc. 
b)  Computer terms and names, commands, sites, companies, hardware, software. 
c)  The words "STS", "amman", "jordanamman" or any derivation. 
d)  Birthdays and other personal information such as addresses and phone numbers. 
e)  Word or number patterns like aaabbb, qwerty, zyxwvuts, 123321, etc. 
f)  Any of the above spelled backwards. 
g)  Any of the above preceded or followed by a digit (e.g., secret1, 1secret) 

B.  Strong passwords have the following characteristics: 

1.  Contain both upper and lower case characters (e.g., a‐z, A‐Z) 
2.  Have digits and punctuation characters as well as letters (e.g., 0‐9,!@#$%^&*()_+|~‐=\`{}[]:";'<>?,./) 
3.  Are at least eight alphanumeric characters long. 
4.  Are not words in any language, slang, dialect, jargon, etc. 
5.  Are not based on personal information, names of family, etc. 
6.  Passwords  should  never  be  written  down  or  stored  on‐line.  Try  to  create  passwords  that  can  be  easily 
remembered. One way to do this is create password based on a song title, affirmation, or other phrase. For 
example,  the  phrase  might  be:  "This  May  Be  One  Way  to  Remember"  and  the  password  could  be: 
"TmB1w2R!" or "Tmb1W>r~" or some other variation. 

ii.  Password Protection Standards: 

I. 
II. 

III. 

IV. 

Password policy (security settings) will require from users to change their passwords every 60 days. 
Do not use the same password for STS accounts as for other non STS access (e.g., personal ISP account, bank 
account, etc.).  Where  possible, don't use the same password  for various STS  access needs. Also, select  a 
separate password to be used for a Windows account and a UNIX account. 
Do  not share STS passwords with anyone, including  administrative  assistants or office  administrators. All 
passwords are to be treated as sensitive and confidential STS information. 
Here is a list of "Don’t Do": 

1.  Don't reveal a password over the phone to anyone 
2.  Don't reveal a password in an email message 
3.  Don't reveal a password to the boss 
4.  Don't talk about a password in front of others 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Don't hint at the format of a password (e.g., "my family name") 
6.  Don't reveal a password on questionnaires or security forms 
7.  Don't share a password with family members 
8.  Don't reveal a password to co‐workers while on vacation 

V. 

Password cracking or guessing may be performed on a periodic or random basis by the IT Department. If a 
password is guessed or cracked during one of these scans, the user will be asked to change it. 

7.  VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORK (VPN) 

Policy 

The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines for Remote Access Virtual Private Network (VPN) connections to 
the STS corporate network. It applies to all STS employees utilizing VPNs to access the STS network. This policy applies 
to implementations of VPN 

Guidelines 

VPN gateways will be setup and managed by the Network Administrator at the IT Department. 

All computers connected to STS internal networks via VPN or any other technology must use the most up‐to‐date 
anti‐virus software that is the corporate standard; this includes personal computers. 

VPN users will be automatically disconnected from STS’ network after thirty minutes of inactivity. The user must then 
logon again to reconnect to the network. Pings or other artificial network processes are not to be used to keep the 
connection open. 

Only  STS‐approved  VPN  clients  may  be  used.  Clients  are  given  VPN  access  privilege  through  the  Network 
Administrator at the IT Department, after the approval of the client’s director and the board of directors. 

8.  STS APPLICATIONS & SYSTEMS 

Policy 

The purpose of this policy is to set the rules and procedures of utilizing applications and systems at STS. This policy 
applies to all STS employees who have access to all or some applications at STS. 

Guidelines 

I. 

ACCPAC: 

1.  All reports or updates requested must come through the IT Department only. 
2.  ACCPAC users must terminate their ACCPAC session by using the log off from the start menu. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II. 

III. 

All  new  application  systems  must  be  approved  by  the  IT  Department  first.  Contacting  and  meeting  with 
vendors must be with coordination with the IT Department. 
Formatting and reinstalling new operating systems has to be approved from the IT Department. Also doing 
such operations should be justified. Furthermore, computer names have to be well‐known and assigned by 
the IT Department. However, if the employee had to establish the reinstallation outdoor the STS premises, 
He / She should inform the automation by sending e‐mail mentioning his/her plan. 

9.  ACCESS CONTROL 

•  Users will only be given sufficient rights to all systems to enable them to perform their job function. User 

rights will be kept to a minimum at all times. 

•  Where  possible  no  one  person  will  have  full  rights  to  any  system.  The  IT  Department  will  control 
network/server passwords and system passwords will be assigned by the system administrator in the end‐ 
user department. 

•  The system administrator will be responsible for maintaining the data integrity of the end‐user department’s 

data and for determining end‐user access rights. 

•  Access to the data center and aggregation rooms will be by smartcard and biometric. 

• 

Intruder detection will be implemented where possible. The user account will be locked after 3 incorrect 
attempts. 

•  The IT Department will be notified of all employees entering and leaving the Organization’s employment. The 

IT Department will then add /remove the employee’s permissions and rights to all systems. 

•  Network/server supervisor passwords and system supervisor passwords will be stored in a secure location in 

case of an emergency or disaster, for example a fire safe in the IT Department. 

•  Default passwords on systems such as Oracle and SQL Server will be changed after installation. 

•  Access to the network/servers will be restricted to normal working hours. Users requiring access outside 
normal working hours must request such access in writing on the forms provided by the IT Department. 

•  File systems will have the maximum security implemented that is possible. Where possible users will only be 
given Read and Filescan rights to directories, files will be flagged as read only to prevent accidental deletion. 

10. LAN SECURITY 

A.  Routers & Switches 

• 

LAN equipment, routers, switches will be kept in secure switch rooms. Switch rooms will be kept locked at 
all times. Access to switch rooms will be restricted to IT Department staff only. Other staff and contractors 
requiring access to switch rooms will notify the IT Department in advance so that the necessary supervision 
can be arranged. 

•  Wireless LAN's will make use of the most secure encryption and authentication facilities available. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  Wiring 

•  All network wiring will be fully documented. 
•  All unused network points will be de‐activated when not in use. 
•  All network cables will be periodically scanned and readings recorded for future reference. 
•  Users must not place or store any item on top of network cabling. 
•  Redundant cabling schemes will be used where possible. 

C.  Servers 

•  All servers will be kept securely under lock and key. 

•  Access to the system console and server disk/tape drives will be restricted to authorized IT Department staff 

only. 

D.  Electrical Security 

•  All servers will be fitted with UPS's that also condition the power supply. 
•  All routers, switches and other critical network equipment will also be fitted with UPS's. 
• 

In the event of a mains power failure, the UPS's will have sufficient power to keep the network and servers 
running for suitable time. 

•  Software will be installed on all servers to implement an orderly shutdown in the event of a total power 

failure. 

•  All UPS's will be tested periodically. 

E.  Server Specific Security 

•  The operating system will be kept up to date and patched on a regular basis. 
•  Remote management passwords will be different to the Admin/Administrator password. 
•  Users possessing Admin/Administrator rights will be limited to trained members of the IT Department staff 

only. 

•  Use of the Admin/Administrator accounts will be kept to a minimum. 
•  Assigning security equivalences that give one user the same access rights as another user will be avoided 

where possible. 

•  User’s access to data and applications will be limited by the access control features. 
•  Users must logout or lock their workstations when they leave their workstation for any length of time. 
•  All unused workstations must be switched off outside working hours. 
•  The number of grace logins will be limited to 3. 

F.  Access to Wide Area Network Security 

•  Users will not install their own wireless equipment under any circumstances. 
•  Modems will not be used by users without first notifying the IT Department and obtaining their approval. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Modems will only be used where necessary, in normal circumstances all communications should pass through 

the Organization’s router and firewall. 

•  Where leased lines are used, the associated channel service units will be locked up to prevent access to their 

monitoring ports. 

•  All routers and gateways will be kept locked up in secure areas. 
•  Unnecessary protocols will be removed from routers. 
• 

The preferred method of connection to our Organizations is by a secure VPN connection, using IPsec or SSL. 

G.  Voice System Security 

•  The maintenance port on the PBX will be protected with a secure password. 
•  The default DISA and maintenance passwords on the PBX will be changed to user defined passwords. 
•  Call accounting will be used to monitor access to the maintenance port, DISA ports and abnormal call 

• 

patterns. 
Internal and external call forwarding privileges will be separated, to prevent inbound calls being forwarded 
to an outside line. 

•  The operator will endeavour to ensure that an outside call is not transferred to an outside line. 
•  Voice mail accounts will use a password with a minimum length of six digits. 
• 
•  Telephone bills will be checked carefully to identify any misuse of the telephone system. 

The voice mail password should never match the digits of the phone number. 

H.  BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) Security 

•  The connection from remote devices to STS’s will likely be via untrusted networks such as 3G/4G and/or Wi‐ 
Fi. Therefore, data should always be encrypted in transit between the mobile device and STS’s endpoint 

• 
•  Clear procedures detailing the reporting of lost, stolen or otherwise compromised devices should be given to 

users so that a remote wipe command can be sent to the BYOD product. 

•  The devices used should be up to date and patched in order to mitigate vulnerabilities. STS’s may require 
users to adopt certain behaviours, which include regularly patching their device, and/or configuring certain 
features. Therefore, Jail breaking or rooting is not allowed. 

•  For user to service, the user is only able to access enterprise services after successfully authenticating to the 

service, via their device. The authentication can be at the corporate boundary as part of VPN access. 

• 
•  Data stored on an End User Device needs to be protected against online and offline attacks when in its ‘rest’ 
state. For most EUDs, this will be ‘powered on but locked’. Data may also be stored at rest in cloud services, 
either as part of another third party application on the device, or as part of a device backup service provided 
by the device vendor. 

•  STS’s is only allowed approved Android/IOS applications to access corporate data 
•  When deploying corporately owned EUDs, STS’s typically have full control over those devices and can enforce 

technical security controls on the device to minimize their exposure to risk. 

 
 
 
 
11.  EMERGENCY PROCEDURES 

A.  Emergency Procedures 

1. 

If an employee observes a fire, smoke, toxic fumes or explosion, they should activate the nearest fire alarm 
by breaking the glass. Fire extinguishers are placed in specific locations inside the Company. An employee 
should get to know where they are placed and how to use them.  Dial 199 in case of a fire, notify colleagues 
and leave the building immediately. Key operational personnel should  be on  alert  to activate  evacuation 
procedures. 

2. 

In the case of a bomb  threat, carefully note all information  the caller gives  and immediately contact the 
Management.  Anyone who notes a suspicious object, package, etc. during evacuation should report it to the 
authorities or Security. DO NOT TOUCH OR TAMPER WITH ANY SUSPICIOUS OBJECT, PACKAGE, ETC. 

3.  The  accident  reporting  system  requirements  apply  to  all  incidences  involving  personal  injury,  illness  and 
property/vehicle  damage.  Serious  injury  or  illness  posing  a  life‐threatening  situation  shall  be  reported 
immediately  to  the  employee’s  Manager  and  to  the  local  emergency  response  medical  services.  The 
Company  should  be  informed  within  24  hours  in  order  to  take  the  necessary  measures  and  prepare  the 
required documents. 

4.  EMPLOYEES SHOULD ONLY PROVIDE FIRST AID IF IT IS WITHIN THEIR ABILITY TO DO SO. 

5.  Upon notification of an occupational injury or illness, the department supervisor should complete an Incident 
Report  and  forward  it  to  the  Human  Resources  Department  so  a  medical/insurance  claim  can  be  filed  if 
necessary. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS Policies Manual 

Information Security Policy 

V1 - 2020 

 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 28: INFORMATION SECURITY POLICY 

INTRODUCTION 

This document defines the information security policy of STS.  

As a modern, forward-looking business, STS recognizes at senior levels the need to ensure that its business operates 
smoothly and without interruption for the benefit of its customers, shareholders and other stakeholders. 

In order to provide such a level of continuous operation, STS has implemented an Information Security 
Management System (ISMS) in line with the International Standard for Information Security, ISO/IEC 27001. This 
standard defines the requirements for an ISMS based on internationally recognized best practice. 

The operation of the ISMS has many benefits for the business, including: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Protection of revenue streams and company profitability 

Protection of STS reputation. 

Ensuring the supply of goods and services to customers 

Maintenance and enhancement of shareholder value 

Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements 

STS has decided to maintain full certification to ISO/IEC 27001 in order that the effective adoption of information 
security best practice may be validated by an independent third party, a Registered Certification Body (RCB).  

This policy applies to all systems, people and processes that constitute the organization’s information systems, 
including board members, directors, employees, suppliers and other third parties who have access to STS systems.  

The following supporting documents are relevant to this information security policy and provide additional 
information about how it is applied: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Risk Assessment and Treatment Process 

Statement of Applicability 

Supplier Information Security Evaluation Process 

Internet Acceptable Use Policy 

Cloud Computing Policy 

Mobile Device Policy 

Teleworking Policy 

 
• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Access Control Policy 

User Access Management Process 

Cryptographic Policy 

Physical Security Policy 

Anti-Malware Policy 

Backup Policy 

Logging and Monitoring Policy 

Software Policy 

Technical Vulnerability Management Policy 

Network Security Policy 

Electronic Messaging Policy 

Secure Development Policy 

Information Security Policy for Supplier Relationships 

Availability Management Policy 

IP and Copyright Compliance Policy 

Records Retention and Protection Policy 

Privacy and Personal Data Protection Policy 

Clear Desk and Clear Screen Policy 

Social Media Policy 

HR Security Policy 

Details of the latest version number of each of these documents is available from the ISMS Documentation Log.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INFORMATION SECURITY POLICY  

Information Security Requirements 

A clear definition of the requirements for information security within STS will be agreed and maintained with the 
internal business so that all ISMS activity is focused on the fulfilment of those requirements. Statutory, regulatory 
and contractual requirements will also be documented and input to the planning process. Specific requirements 
about the security of new or changed systems or services will be captured as part of the design stage of each 
project. 

It is a fundamental principle of the STS Information Security Management System that the controls implemented 
are driven by business needs and this will be regularly communicated to all staff through team meetings and 
briefing documents.  

Framework for Setting Objectives 

A regular cycle will be used for the setting of objectives for information security, to coincide with the budget 
planning cycle. This will ensure that adequate funding is obtained for the improvement activities identified. These 
objectives will be based upon a clear understanding of the business requirements, informed by the management 
review process during which the views of relevant interested parties may be obtained. 

Information security objectives will be documented for an agreed time period, together with details of how they will 
be achieved. These will be evaluated and monitored as part of management reviews to ensure that they remain 
valid. If amendments are required, these will be managed through the change management process. 

In accordance with ISO/IEC 27001 the reference controls detailed in Annex A of the standard will be adopted where 
appropriate by STS. These will be reviewed on a regular basis in the light of the outcome from risk assessments and 
in line with information security risk treatment plans. For details of which Annex, A controls have been 
implemented and which have been excluded please see the Statement of Applicability.  

In addition, enhanced and additional controls from the following codes of practice will be adopted and 
implemented where appropriate: 

• 

ISO/IEC 27002 – Code of practice for information security controls 

The adoption of these codes of practice will provide additional assurance to our customers and help further with 
our compliance with international data protection legislation. 

Continual Improvement of the ISMS 

STS policy regarding continual improvement is to: 

•  Continually improve the effectiveness of the ISMS 
•  Enhance current processes to bring them into line with good practice as defined within ISO/IEC 27001 and 

related standards 

 
 
 
•  Achieve ISO/IEC 27001 certification and maintain it on an on-going basis 
• 

Increase the level of proactivity (and the stakeholder perception of proactivity) with regard to information 
security  

•  Make information security processes and controls more measurable in order to provide a sound basis for 

informed decisions 

•  Review relevant metrics on an annual basis to assess whether it is appropriate to change them, based on 

collected historical data 

•  Obtain ideas for improvement via regular meetings and other forms of communication with interested 

parties. 

•  Review ideas for improvement at regular management meetings in order to prioritise and assess timescales 

and benefits 

Ideas for improvements may be obtained from any source including employees, customers, suppliers, IT staff, risk 
assessments and service reports. Once identified they will be recorded and evaluated as part of management 
reviews. 

Information Security Policy Areas 

•  STS defines policy in a wide variety of information security-related areas which are described in detail in a 
comprehensive set of policy documentation that accompanies this overarching information security policy. 

•  Each of these policies is defined and agreed by one or more people with competence in the relevant area 

and, once formally approved, is communicated to an appropriate audience, both within and external to, the 
organization. 

•  The table below shows the individual policies within the documentation set and summarizes each policy’s 

content and the target audience of interested parties. 

POLICY TITLE 

AREAS ADDRESSED 

TARGET AUDIENCE 

Internet Acceptable 
Use Policy 

Business use of the Internet, personal use of 
the Internet, Internet account management, 
security and monitoring and prohibited uses 
of the Internet service. 

Cloud Computing 
Policy 

Due diligence, signup, setup, management 
and removal of cloud computing services. 

Mobile Device Policy 

Teleworking Policy 

Care and security of mobile devices such as 
laptops, tablets and smartphones, whether 
provided by the organization or the individual 
for business use. 

Information security considerations in 
establishing and running a teleworking site 
and arrangement e.g. physical security, 
insurance and equipment 

Users of the Internet service 

Employees involved in the 
procurement and 
management of cloud services 

Users of company-provided 
and BYOD (Bring Your Own 
Device) mobile devices  

Management and employees 
involved in setting up and 
maintaining a teleworking site 

 
 
Access Control Policy 

Cryptographic Policy 

Physical Security 
Policy 

Anti-Malware Policy 

User registration and deregistration, 
provision of access rights, external access, 
access reviews, password policy, user 
responsibilities and system and application 
access control. 

Risk assessment, technique selection, 
deployment, testing and review of 
cryptography, and key management 

Employees involved in setting 
up and managing access 
control 

Employees involved in setting 
up and managing the use of 
cryptographic technology and 
techniques 

Secure areas, paper and equipment security 
and equipment lifecycle management 

All employees 

Firewalls, anti-virus, spam filtering, software 
installation and scanning, vulnerability 
management, user awareness training, threat 
monitoring and alerts, technical reviews and 
malware incident management.  

Employees responsible for 
protecting the organization’s 
infrastructure from malware 

Backup Policy 

Backup cycles, cloud backups, off-site 
storage, documentation, recovery testing and 
protection of storage media 

Employees responsible for 
designing and implementing 
backup regimes 

Logging and 
Monitoring Policy 

Settings for event collection. protection and 
review 

Software Policy 

Technical 
Vulnerability 
Management Policy 

Network Security 
Policy 

Electronic Messaging 
Policy 

Secure Development 
Policy 

Purchasing software, software registration, 
installation and removal, in-house software 
development and use of software in the 
cloud. 

Vulnerability definition, sources of 
information, patches and updates, 
vulnerability assessment, hardening and 
awareness training. 

Network security design, including network 
segregation, perimeter security, wireless 
networks and remote access; network 
security management, including roles and 
responsibilities, logging and monitoring and 
changes. 

Sending and receiving electronic messages, 
monitoring of electronic messaging facilities 
and use of email. 

Business requirements specification, system 
design, development and testing and 
outsourced software development. 

Employees responsible for 
protecting the organization’s 
infrastructure from attacks 

All employees 

Employees responsible for 
protecting the organization’s 
infrastructure from malware 

Employees responsible for 
designing, implementing and 
managing networks 

Users of electronic messaging 
facilities 

Employees responsible for 
designing, managing and 

writing code for bespoke 
software developments 

Information Security 
Policy for Supplier 
Relationships 

Due diligence, supplier agreements, 
monitoring and review of services, changes, 
disputes and end of contract. 

Employees involved in setting 
up and managing supplier 
relationships 

Availability 
Management Policy 

Availability requirements and design, 
monitoring and reporting, non-availability, 
testing availability plans and managing 
changes. 

Employees responsible for 
designing systems and 
managing service delivery 

IP and Copyright 
Compliance Policy 

Protection of intellectual property, the law, 
penalties and software license compliance. 

All employees 

Records Retention 
and Protection Policy 

Retention period for specific record types, 
use of cryptography, media selection, record 
retrieval, destruction and review. 

Employees responsible for 
creation and management of 
records 

Privacy and Personal 
Data Protection 
Policy 

Applicable data protection legislation, 
definitions and requirements.  

Employees responsible for 
designing and managing 
systems using personal data 

Clear Desk and Clear 
Screen Policy 

Security of information shown on screens, 
printed out and held on removable media. 

Social Media Policy 

HR Security Policy 

Acceptable Use 
Policy 

Asset Management 
Policy 

Guidelines for how social media should be 
used when representing the organization and 
when discussing issues relevant to the 
organization. 

Recruitment, employment contracts, policy 
compliance, disciplinary process, termination 

Employee commitment to organizational 
information security policies 

This document sets out the rules for how 
assets must be managed from an information 
security perspective. 

Table 1: Set of policy documents 

All employees 

All employees 

All employees 

All employees 

All employees 

Application of Information Security Policy 

The policy statements made in this document and in the set of supporting policies listed in Table 1 have been 
reviewed and approved by the top management of STS and must be complied with. Failure by an employee to 
comply with these policies may result in disciplinary action being taken in accordance with the organization’s 
Employee Disciplinary Process.  
Questions regarding any STS policy should be addressed in the first instance to the employee’s immediate line 
manager. 

 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

STS Code of Ethics 

V1-2018 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
CHAPTER 5: STS CODE OF ETHICS 

Letter from the Chairman of the Board 

Introduction to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  

At STS, we are committed to conducting our business with honesty and integrity and complying with all 
applicable laws. STS’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (“Code”) exemplifies our dedication to these 
high business standards. The Code summarizes the legal and ethical principles that we follow in our daily 
work and applies these principles to our policies and practices.  

STS’s commitment to the Code starts at the top of the corporation. The STS Ethics Office reports to the 
Board of Directors and assesses STS’s overall compliance with applicable law and the Code, oversees the 
compliance training program and considers the appropriate response to significant compliance matters 
and legal developments.  

Laws and standards vary in different countries and cultures, but, as a regional company, our common goal 
and continuing commitment is to maintain equally high standards wherever we operate. Some parts of 
the Code focus on United States laws because the majority of STS vendors are from the US and we have 
a  high  degree  of  business  regulation  to  be  maintained.  However,  this  U.S.  focus  does  not  reduce  our 
obligation and commitment  to  also comply with the applicable laws of countries  in which we operate 
and/or conduct business.  

The obligations in the Code apply to:  

• STS Corporation, its  subsidiaries,  affiliates, joint ventures and all other entities, that, in each 
case, are directly or indirectly controlled or managed by STS;  
• The employees and directors of these entities (to the extent applicable to their work for STS)  
• Suppliers and contractors in their work on behalf of STS.  

All  of  us,  including  all  employees,  officers,  directors  and  others  who  are  bound  by  the  Code,  are 
responsible  for  becoming  familiar  with  and  abiding  by  the  Code.  In  addition,  STS  group,  division  and 
operations managers and supervisors are accountable for compliance with – and enforcement of – the 
Code by the operations they manage. Failure to carry out these responsibilities may lead to disciplinary 
action, including discharge.  

You are also required to promptly and accurately report any violations of the Code that come to your 
attention. Sections 3 and 4 of the Code contain specific information on fulfilling your reporting obligations. 
Reporting and information resources are also provided at the end of the Code. The Code is not intended 
to cover every possible ethical or legal situation. Wisdom, discretion and sound judgment should guide 
everyone.  
We need your commitment to help maintain the moral, ethical and law-abiding heritage that has been so 
important to STS. I know I can count on it.  

Ramzi Zeine 
Chairman of the Board 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We Are Committed to Ethical Behaviour 

Commitment to Ethics. 

Ethical behaviour is an individual responsibility. Behaviour reflecting high ethical standards is expected of 
all directors, employees and others who are bound by the Code, regardless of position or location.  

No director, officer, manager  or supervisor has the authority to violate or require conduct  by another 
employee or any other person that violates the Code, other STS policies or applicable law.  

The obligations in the Code apply to STS Corporation, its subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures and all other 
entities, that, in each case, are directly or indirectly controlled or managed by STS, the employees and 
directors of these entities (to the extent applicable to their work for STS) and suppliers and contractors in 
their work on behalf of STS.  

Management Responsibility for Ethics  

All STS Officers, managers and supervisors are accountable for the actions of the employees who report 
to them and responsible for seeing that the Code, other STS policies and applicable laws are followed.  

They must:  

• 

Inform their employees  about company policies, including those dealing with legal and ethical 
behaviour. 

•  Ensure  that  appropriate  ongoing  employee  training  occurs  and  that  violators  of  the  Code  are 

appropriately disciplined. 

•  Avoid hiring individuals who have a propensity to violate any applicable law or rules of the type 

embodied in the Code; and 

•  Maintain  a  work  environment  where  constructive,  frank,  and  open  discussion  about  ethics  is 

• 

encouraged and expected       without fear of retaliation. 
In this effort, managers should seek and will receive support from STS’s Human Resources and 
the Ethics Office. 

 We Comply with the Code, Other STS Policies, and All Applicable Laws 

We comply with the Code, other STS policies and all applicable laws in conducting our business.  

There are countries where common trading or negotiating practices are based on codes of conduct that 
are less stringent or different than the Code. In such countries, employees should follow the Code, except 
for variances that are permitted by applicable law and are based on good ethical and business judgment.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The relevant division manager or General Managers of STS Corporation must approve any such variance 
in writing if no division manager is available. Contact an STS lawyer if you have any questions about the 
application  of  the  law  of  any  country,  about  the  Code,  or  about  the  relation  or  any  apparent  conflict 
between them.  

In the unusual circumstances where a waiver of the Code would be appropriate for an executive officer 
or director, such waiver must be approved by the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board and 
promptly disclosed as required by applicable laws and regulations. In the case of all other employees, only 
a corporate officer, in conjunction with the Board of Directors, may grant such a waiver.  

We Fulfil the STS Ethics Office Program 

STS Ethics Office 

The STS Ethics Office will be headed by an Ethics/Compliance Officer and reports directly to the CEO and 
Board of Directors. Ms. Rasha Atallah is selected as STS Ethics Officer starting August 2018.  The Ethics 
Office/Officer  assesses  STS’s  overall  compliance  with  applicable  law  and  the  Code,  oversees  the 
compliance training program, and considers the appropriate response to significant compliance matters 
and  legal  developments.  In  addition  to  the  resources  that  can  be  provided  for  asking  questions  and 
reporting  suspected  violations  of  the  Code,  employees  are  encouraged  to  contact  the  Ethics  Office 
through the address below:  

STS Ethics Office  

Ms. Rasha I. Atallah 

Shaban’s Building 

Amman, Jordan - 11195 

Or: STS Ethics Response Line: ++962795767989 

Or: STS Ethics Email: ethics@sts.com.jo 

We Report Suspected Non-Compliance 

Any employee who learns of a suspected violation of the Code must immediately report it by following 
the procedure below. Employees are required to come forward with any such information without regard 
to the identity or position of the suspected offender. 

STS  will  treat  the  information  in  a  confidential  manner  and  will  ensure  that  no  acts  of  retribution  or 
retaliation will be taken against anyone for making a report in good faith. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Compliance Reporting Procedure  

Employee Report: Any employee who learns of a violation of the Code must immediately report it.  

Investigation:  It  is  STS’s  policy  and  intent  to  investigate  any  reported  violation of  the  Code,  other  STS 
policy, or applicable law, and to take appropriate action, as determined by STS, based on the results of 
the  investigation.  Reports  of  violations  of  accounting,  accounting  controls  and  audit  matters  will  be 
investigated under the supervision of the Board of Directors.  

All other violations will be investigated under the supervision of the Ethics Office. Employees are expected 
to cooperate in the investigation of reported violations.  

Confidentiality: The investigators will not disclose the identity of anyone who reports a suspected violation 
or who participates in the investigation. Employees should be aware that the Ethics Office is obligated to 
act in the best interests of STS and do not act as personal representatives or lawyers for the employees.  

Protection against Retaliation: Retaliation in any form against an individual, who in good faith reports a 
violation  of  the  Code,  or  who  assists  in  the  investigation  of  a  reported  violation,  is  prohibited.  Every 
employee may report such violations without fear of retaliation by co-workers, supervisors or others that 
are the subject of the report.  

Discipline for Non-compliance  

Failure to comply with the Code will result in disciplinary action ranging from a reprimand to dismissal.  

Civil or criminal violations may be prosecuted.  

We Value and Safeguard Our Relationships with Customers  

Most Valued Supplier  

A primary objective at STS is to become our customers’ most valued supplier.  

We achieve this objective by providing products and services that best meet customer needs and doing 
so in a manner that creates a lasting bond of cooperation and trust.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We treat customers fairly and honestly at all times in a manner that conforms to all applicable laws and is 
consistent  with  good  business  practice.  We  do  not  make  false  or  misleading  remarks  about  other 
companies or their employees or products, including our competitors.  

Safe and High-Quality Products  

We conduct business with a high regard for the health and safety of those using our products and services. 
This regard assures safety and strengthens the  bond between STS and our customers. Each employee 
plays  a  critical  role  in  ensuring  the  quality  and  safety  of  STS  products,  from  design  through 
implementation, ongoing improvements, and customer support.  

We Value and Safeguard Our Employee Relationships 

Respect for Employees  

STS is committed to respecting human dignity. Trust, respect, and ethical business conduct are essential 
to achieving and maintaining sound relationships among our employees. Basic to these relationships is 
the recognition of the personal value and contribution of every employee. At STS, we value the diversity 
of  our  employees,  and  we  judge  and  treat  every  employee  with  dignity  and  respect.  Consistent  with 
applicable laws of the location, employees and applicants for employment will be judged on the basis of 
their performance and qualifications without regard to race, creed, gender, religion, national origin, age 
or disability. Sexual harassment of any type is prohibited.  

Child Labour/Forced Labour  

We are opposed to any form of harmful child labour and forced or compulsory labour. It is STS policy to 
prohibit harmful child labour or the use of forced or compulsory labour in our workplaces and we expect 
our suppliers and contractors to do the same.  

Respect for Employees’ Privacy  

STS respects the privacy of its employees, former employees and job applicants and will share employee 
information only for business reasons consistent with applicable law. This is not inconsistent with STS’s 
right to monitor electronic communications.  

Safe and Healthy Working Environment  

Maintaining a safe and healthy work environment is integral to the operation of our business. Accidents 
harm our employees and undermine the effective performance of the business, as well as the trust of the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
communities in which we operate. We are responsible for preventing accidents by maintaining a healthy 
work  environment,  by  following  safe  procedures  and  practices,  and  by  using  all  prescribed  personal 
protective equipment where applicable to our business.  

No Substance Abuse  

We do not use, sell, purchase, transfer, manufacture, possess, or permit to be present in our system any 
illegal  or  unauthorized  drugs,  synthetic/designer  drugs,  or  any  controlled  substance  (except  legally 
prescribed drugs), nor do we abuse prescribed drugs, while on STS premises, engaged in STS business, or 
operating STS equipment.  

In addition, we do not use, sell, manufacture, purchase, transfer or possess alcohol in an STS facility or on 
company  premises.  We  are  not  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  while  performing  STS  business  or  job-
related duties or while operating STS equipment.  

We Comply with Health, Safety, Security, and Environmental Laws 

We  are  committed  to  protecting  the  environment  and  the  health  and  safety  of  our  employees,  our 
families, our communities, and the public through full compliance with all applicable laws and continuous 
improvement of our performance on environmental, health and safety matters.  

To  meet  STS  environmental  standards,  every  STS  owned-and-operated  facility  must  demonstrate 
compliance with all public health and environmental laws pertaining to its operations and consistent with 
applicable law.  

STS’s Policy on Health, Safety, Security, and the Environment  

STS embraces our responsibility to protect the environment and the health, safety and security of our 
employees, their families, our communities, and the public, as a core value of our business sustainability.  

Transparently  promoting  health,  safety,  security,  and  environment  is  the  responsibility  of  all  STS 
employees in the countries in which we operate.  

STS’s health, safety, security, and environment Guiding Principles mandate that we:  

•  Pursue  a  business  strategy  that  builds  on  sustainable  innovation,  operations  and  business 
practices as we seek to grow our businesses and improve the quality of people’s lives everywhere. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Openly conduct our business in a manner that is protective of public and occupational health, the 

environment and employee safety.  

•  Strive to eliminate all accidents and injuries, with an objective of achieving injury-free workplaces.  
•  Comply with all relative laws and regulations.  
•  Actively  engage  with  our  employees,  suppliers,  customers,  neighbours,  and  shareholders  to 

ensure continuous improvement. 

•  Engage in recycling programs where appropriate. 

We Value and Safeguard Our Relationships with Suppliers and Contractors  

We seek to maintain our reputation as a dependable customer by being equitable and reliable in dealings 
with suppliers. We will treat suppliers and contractors fairly and honestly at all times and in a manner 
conforming to all applicable laws.  

We expect our suppliers to share our commitment to sustainability and to producing safe and high-quality 
products.  

We expect our suppliers to conduct themselves in an ethical and responsible manner that supports the 
protection of and respect for human dignity in their workplaces and is consistent with STS’s standards.  

We Protect Our Property and the Property of Others 

We are responsible for the protection of STS assets, including physical property, intangible assets, and all 
forms of electronic documents and files, business communications, including electronic mail, telephone, 
Internet and Intranet, against loss, theft, and misuse. STS assets are intended for use for proper company 
purposes and may not be sold, loaned, given away or disposed of without proper authorization. We may 
make  personal  use  of  such  assets  on  an  occasional  and  limited  basis  only  as  long  as  STS’s  policies  on 
Acceptable  Use  of  IT  Resources  and  other  relevant  policies  are  followed,  there  are  no  measurable 
increased costs and other employees are not distracted as a result of the use. In addition, use of such 
assets for personal gain is prohibited.  

We Use our Electronic Communications and Internet Access for Company Purposes  

STS’s electronic communications and Internet access systems are important tools through which we 
conduct much of our company’s business. These communication mechanisms and devices include e-
mail, fax and instant messaging systems. STS reserves the right to monitor the use of its Internet 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
resources and electronic communications and to investigate potential improprieties. Users have no 
expectation of privacy in their use of STS communications systems beyond that required by law.  

STS reserves the right to filter Internet content that it considers offensive or inappropriate. All use of 
Internet access and electronic communications will be in accordance with applicable laws, regulations 
and STS policies and shall not be used to:  

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

Violate copyright, trade secret, patent or other intellectual property rights.  
Reveal company confidential information via social media networks or otherwise;  
Threaten, deceive, defraud, harass, defame, intimidate or offend others or otherwise violate 
the privacy of any person;  
Attempt to gain illegal access into another computer network or system;  
Create, execute, store or knowingly propagate non-approved files, such as viruses, worms, 
password capturing  programs, Trojan horses, etc.  
Intentionally disrupt or disable STS resources nor prevent other authorized users from using 
these resources;  
Send chain letters, unauthorized solicitations or advertisements;  
Distribute STS business e-mail addresses of other employees for non-business purposes such 
as subscribing to private bulletin boards, shopping sites and any other non-business sites;  
Introduce sexually explicit or offensive materials into the workplace;  
Access pornography, gambling ventures, nonbusiness – related chat rooms or message 
boards; or  
Download files, unless they are necessary for business purposes and approved by the local IT 
department.  

Reporting Loss or Misuse of Property  

Any individual aware of the loss or misuse of any property must report it to his or her manager or 
supervisor or another appropriate STS person or contact the Ethics Office at the numbers and address 
provided. Any individual receiving such reports shall handle them in a careful and thorough manner.  

We Protect STS Confidential Information and Respect the Confidential Information of Others 

What is Confidential Information?  

Confidential information is information that is not generally known to the public and, if improperly 
disclosed, may be harmful to the company or its customers or suppliers, or helpful to its competitors.  

STS possesses valuable confidential information that has been developed over many years at 
considerable expense.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
This information includes proprietary information and trade secrets, such as sales, financial, scientific, 
economic or engineering information, customer lists, marketing plans, technical plans, formulas, 
methods, techniques, processes, procedures, programs and codes – regardless of how such information 
is stored, compiled or memorialized – for which STS takes reasonable measures to keep secret.  

How do we protect Confidential Information?  

We must protect the confidentiality of this information as carefully as we protect STS’s physical and 
other property and should routinely take precautions to keep the information from being disclosed. We 
do not share confidential information with, or authorize its use by Non-STS People or even with STS 
people who do not need to know the information, except as provided in contracts or legally mandated 
non-disclosure agreements.  

The obligation to protect STS’s confidential information continues even after employment at STS ceases. 
If it is appropriate for business reasons to share STS confidential information with a Non-STS Person 
and/or to allow a Non-STS Person to use the confidential information, a written confidentiality 
agreement is required to be executed in advance. STS HR Department can provide an agreement that is 
appropriate for the circumstances or one of STS designated lawyers can be contacted through the HR 
Department. We also keep the information in a secure, non-accessible location and transmit confidential 
information electronically only under secure conditions.  

Our obligation to protect confidential information extends to social media networking. STS employees 
should follow the same procedures for protecting company confidential information when engaging in 
any social networking activities.  

STS will vigorously pursue any suspected improper taking and/or use of its confidential information.  

If we discover a possible theft of STS confidential information, we must bring this discovery to our 
supervisor, the Ethics office or other appropriate person.  

We Gather Business Information Ethically and Lawfully 

As part of the daily execution of our business, we gather intelligence about competitors, suppliers, and 
customers in ethical and lawful ways. Most useful information is available from public sources through 
hard work and persistence. In seeking information from non-public sources, we act with honesty and 
integrity, and we do not seek, obtain, or use any information if it would violate any applicable law, 
including without limitation trade secret or other confidential information laws, and laws relating to 
confidential relationships between employers and employees.  

We protect confidential information provided on a confidential basis by others to STS – usually by 
following procedures described in agreements relating to the information.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We will not improperly take confidential information from others.  Individuals and companies who 
improperly disclose confidential information are subject to lawsuits for damages and injunctions, as well 
as criminal liability under signed Non-Disclosure Agreements, including financial penalties or even prison 
terms.  

We do not accept or misdirect communications or electronic documents not meant for us. Any receipt 
of such communications that appears to be in error and contains proprietary or sensitive information, 
such as a competitor’s marketing plans or client’s requirements should be reported to your supervisor 
and, in the case of electronic communications, to the IT department so that any appropriate action can 
be taken.  

We Avoid Conflicts of Interest 

We shall not engage in any activity that would create a conflict of interest between our personal interests 
(including the interests of our immediate families*) and the best interests of STS. We will make all business 
decisions in the best interests of STS. Any actual or potential conflict of interest between STS and us is 
prohibited unless specifically approved in writing by our supervisor (or in the case of a director, the Board 
of  Directors).  In  determining  the  presence  or  absence  of  a  conflict  of  interest,  the  following  will  be 
considered: the amount of our financial interest; our position with STS and the influence that we may 
have in business dealings that impact the matter; and all other relevant factors.  

Activities that could create a conflict of interest include:  

• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

Engaging in personal or any other Non-STS Business on company time or with company assets;  
self-employment  or  engaging  in  any  other  activity,  if  the  work  or  activity  affects  job 
performance or encroaches on         time or    attention that should be devoted to STS’s affairs;  
Disclosing or using for personal advantage confidential information gained by our position with 
STS.  
Disposing of STS assets for personal benefit. This policy applies both to physical assets – such as 
equipment, cars and trucks, and office supplies – and to services provided or paid for by STS, 
such as Internet access, electronic mail, telephone, fax and the internal mail system.  
Accepting loans or gifts of any kind, preferential treatment, or favours that place or appear to 
place  us or any member of our immediate  family*  under a stated or implied obligation to a 
competitor,  supplier  or  customer  of  STS.  For  example,  we  do  not  make  investments  in 
competitors, suppliers, or customers of any kind if the arrangement is not generally available to 
others or if a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest could arise because 
of our duties and responsibilities. We may accept promotional premiums and discounts offered 
by  transportation  companies,  hotels  and  similar  service  providers  –  such  as,  for  example, 
“frequent fliers” program benefits – if they are offered to travelers generally and STS has not 
specified to the contrary.  

 
 
 
 
  
 
• 

Having a significant investment in or working for or serving as a consultant or advisor to any 
other firm or person (even in a self-employed capacity) if that firm or person is a competitor (or 
actively planning to become one), a supplier or a customer of STS.  

In addition, neither we nor any member of our immediate family* shall accept membership on the board 
of directors of any competitor, supplier of material or services, or customer of STS without prior written 
approval of STS’s Board of Directors.  

If a director has a personal interest in a matter before the Board, the director will disclose the interest to 
the  full  Board  prior  to  discussion  as  to  such  matter  or  deliberation,  excuse  himself  or  herself  from 
participation  in  the  discussion,  and  will  not  vote  on  the  matter.  Personal  interests  may  include 
commercial,  industrial,  banking,  consulting,  legal,  accounting,  charitable  and  financial  relationships, 
among others.  

*For purposes of the Code, “immediate family” means your spouse, parent, children, siblings, mothers- 
and  fathers-in-law,  sons-  and  daughters-in-law,  brothers-  and  sisters-in-law,  and  anyone  (other  than 
domestic  employees)  who  shares  your  home.  This  definition  does  not  apply  to  the  use  of  the  term 
“immediate family” for purposes of medical coverage and other benefit plan purposes.  

Seek Help in Resolving Questions under this Conflict of Interest Policy.  

Conflicts  are  not  always  clear-cut.  If  an  employee,  officer,  or  director  becomes  aware  of  a  conflict, 
potential conflict, or has a question as to a potential conflict, the employee, officer, or director should 
consult with higher levels of management or the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and/or follows the 
procedures for reporting any misconduct.  Sensitive or difficult questions should be  referred to an STS 
lawyer.  

We Comply with Laws and Regulations for Transnational Business 

We operate our business in compliance with all applicable laws. When we make significant business 
investments or acquisitions, we take into account sustainability, compliance and other ethical 
considerations.  

We comply with all Import Control Laws 

It is STS’s policy to comply with all laws and regulations that apply to its imports into any country in 
which we operate and import materials into. In addition to STS Logistics and Accounting Departments; it 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is the responsibility of every business unit to implement and maintain the necessary internal controls for 
import compliance, exercise reasonable care in all import activities and make best efforts to assure 
appropriate personnel understand and comply with all import laws of the relative country.  

Import laws govern many aspects of our imports, including admissibility of imports, classification and 
valuation for duty purposes, country of origin marking, environmental reporting, security, eligibility for 
special preference programs (e.g., Security clearance on some communication devices by the Local 
Telecommunication Regulatory Commission or by the US Customs Security Clearance), and records 
retention.  

STS is committed to strict compliance with all import laws and regulations and expects all employees to 
implement this commitment in STS’s business operations. Implementation will be achieved through 
organizational commitment, allocation of sufficient human and capital resources, and appropriate 
oversight and corrective actions.  

STS is also committed to all aspects of its Vendors and Suppliers who are mandated by their country’s 
Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, under which STS has committed to ensure the safety and 
security of all imports from the point of origin to the point of final destination and to corresponding 
programs in other jurisdictions.  

We Comply with All Export Control Laws 

Many of STS Vendors, Partners and Suppliers are originating from The United States and are mandated 
to comply with laws and regulations that restrict exports of certain products, services, and technologies 
to certain countries or buyers (Boycott).  STS honors these Vendors boycotts and will ensure that the 
items they import from the vendors are lawfully exported and are sold to the country and individual to 
whom they are intended.  

In practice, the boycott that most commonly presents problems is the Secondary boycott where a 
dealing with a company that deals with a boycott country is in question.  For STS own generated 
products or Services; we do not participate in or Comply with Secondary Boycotts that are against the 
Local Government’s Policy, Including the US or the EU Boycott of some Arab Countries or Middle Eastern 
Countries.  We also do not comply with Secondary Boycott of dealing with companies that deal with a 
direct boycott country of our Vendors. 

The laws governing foreign boycotts are complex, and requests for compliance with a foreign boycott or 
certification of compliance must be reported even if compliance with the foreign boycott is permitted by 
law.  

To comply with these laws, every group, division, and operation must Ensure that international sales, 
order entry, traffic, documentation, and credit personnel – who are likely to come in contact with 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
requests for compliance with foreign boycotts – are instructed about how to comply with these laws and 
that they follow STS’s procedures relating to these laws.  

We Do Not Pay Bribes or Make Improper Payments 

STS funds shall not be used to make payments that violate any applicable laws or regulations. While this 
policy summarizes the most commonly applied laws and regulations, they can be ambiguous or difficult 
to interpret. If you are uncertain about any payment, consult your manager or an STS lawyer.  

We Do Not Engage in Commercial Bribery 

We do not pay bribes, kickbacks, or similar payments or gratuities to people or organizations in order to 
gain or keep business or to direct business to any other person or company. This policy applies both to 
payments made directly and to payments made through an intermediary.  

We Do Not Pay Bribes or Kickbacks to Government Agencies, Employees, or Officials  

We do not directly or indirectly offer or give any money, gift, favour, entertainment, loan, gratuity, or 
other item of value to any employee of any government that regulates or does business with STS. As 
long as there is no violation of the rules or standards of conduct of STS or the recipient’s organization, 
employees of STS businesses doing business with or regulated by the local government agencies are 
permitted to provide meals and refreshments that are reasonable and directly related to business 
discussions. We do not make any direct or indirect payments – including STS funds, personal funds or 
anything else of value – to any government official, employee, political party or candidate of any country 
in order:  

     • To obtain or retain business for STS or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates; or  

     • To direct business to any other person.  

We also do not authorize such payments to be made through a third person if we know or are 
substantially certain that any portion of the payment will be used to pay a government official or 
employee, or political party or candidate.  

STS does not operate in any countries in which bribery of government or political officials is lawful. In 
addition, Jordan for example and some other countries have enacted laws making bribery of 
government officials a crime. At STS, we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In particular, we 
do not engage in violations of foreign law even if local business practices seem to ignore the law. Even 
when they are not intended to obtain, retain, or direct business, we do not provide gifts and 
entertainment to government officials and employees of any country beyond the extent to which they 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are extended by normal custom in the relevant country. The value of such gifts or entertainment should 
not exceed US$100 per person without the prior approval of management.  

We Use Special Care in Appointing Sales Representatives, Distributors, and Consultants 

Commission or fee arrangements may be made only with firms or persons serving as bona fide 
commercial sales representatives, distributors, or consultants (jointly “representatives”). These 
arrangements may not be entered into with any firm in which a government official or employee is 
known or believed to have an interest if STS conducts or may seek to conduct business with the 
government agency to which the official or employee is connected. All business units must investigate 
the character and reputation of each proposed representative to determine their appropriateness prior 
to the engagement.  

We pay our representatives by above-board means. Payments must never be made in cash, and they 
must be made to the representative’s business office in the country in which it is located (and not to a 
foreign office or foreign bank account).  

All commission and fee arrangements with representatives shall be covered by a written agreement. The 
agreement must contain, in addition to other normal terms and conditions:  

• 
• 

• 

A clear description of the services to be provided;  
The commitment by the representative to abide by applicable law, including a representation that 
no prohibited payments have been or will be made or promised; and  
A statement that STS may be required to disclose the existence and terms and conditions of the 
contract to authorized governmental agencies.  

The amount of commission or fee to be paid to a representative for assistance in securing orders and for 
after-sales service must be reasonable in light of normal practice for the industry, the line of products 
involved, and the commercial services to be rendered. Sales representative and distributor agreements 
are available from STS lawyers.  

We Respect the Political Process and Comply with Laws Governing Political Contributions 

We comply fully with all laws regulating corporate and employee participation in public affairs, subject 
to the procedures set out below. STS encourages employees to exercise their rights and assume their 
obligations as citizens.  

Where applicable law permits corporations to make contributions to candidates for public office, such 
contributions must receive prior written approval from the Board of Directors.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These requirements pertain only to political contributions to be made with STS corporate funds. They do 
not restrict personal decisions by STS employees to make lawful personal contributions on their own. 
STS encourages this type of participation. Employees must not, however, be reimbursed by expense 
accounts or otherwise for such personal contributions.  

In some countries, political contributions by STS or its subsidiaries can be authorized only when 
permitted by applicable law, after prior written approval by the Board of Directors.  

We Deal Lawfully and Fairly in Government Procurement 

We conduct business with the governments of the countries in which we operate in accordance with 
high ethical standards. We recognize a special obligation to safeguard and preserve the good will and 
trust of those governments, their customers, and their taxpayers. Although fundamental principles of 
honesty are constants in all of STS’s businesses, a business that serves governments has additional 
requirements regarding the appearance and documentation of fairness and integrity.  

In addition to complying with applicable law and with the Code, we vigorously seek to control costs in 
accordance with local government procurement standards and regulations to obtain items for 
government contracts of appropriate quality at the best possible price.  

We Keep Accurate Company Records, Make Full, Fair, Accurate and Timely Disclosures 

We make full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosures in reports that STS files under 
applicable laws, rules and regulations and in other public communications. Dishonest reporting, both 
inside and outside the company will not be tolerated. This includes reporting or organizing information 
in an attempt to mislead or misinform. No entry will be made on the company’s books and records that 
intentionally hides or disguises the true nature of any transaction.  

STS has adopted controls to ensure the safeguarding of STS assets and the accuracy of its financial 
records and reports in accordance with internal needs and requirements of applicable laws and 
regulations. These established accounting practices and procedures must be followed to assure the 
complete and accurate recording of all transactions. All employees, within their area of responsibility, 
are expected to adhere to these procedures, as directed by the appropriate STS Manager.  

No employee or director may interfere with or seek to improperly influence, directly or indirectly, the 
auditing of STS’s financial records. Violation of these provisions shall result in disciplinary action up to 
and including termination and may also subject the violator to substantial civil and criminal liability.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an employee becomes aware of any improper transaction or accounting practice, he or she must 
immediately report the matter as described in Section 4 of this Code.  

Our obligation to record and report information accurately and honestly also applies to the accurate 
reporting of time worked, business expenses incurred and other business-related activities.  

We Manage Our Records Properly 

To operate effectively and efficiently, records must be managed properly. Documents needed for 
ongoing business or required by law must be retained, while all other documents should be discarded. If 
excess records are not discarded, the costs and distraction of records maintenance escalates continually.  

Documents should be discarded on an ongoing basis as they are no longer needed, and a general review 
of documents as to whether they are still needed is to be conducted at least once per year. In general, 
no document should be retained for more than two years unless it is needed for ongoing business or a 
law requires its retention.  

Those who are unsure about the need to keep particular documents should consult with their records 
administrator or supervisor, so that a judgment can be made as to the likelihood that the documents 
will be needed.  

Reporting and Information Resources 

You are required to promptly and accurately report any violations of the Code that come to your 
attention to your manager, Ethics Office, human resources manager or a member of the Board of 
Directors. If you are uncomfortable reporting a violation to these individuals or wish to report a violation 
anonymously, write to:  

STS Ethics Office  

Ms. Rasha I. Atallah 

Tel: ++96265802626 ext. 1110 

Shaban’s Building 

Amman, Jordan – 11195 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Or: STS Ethics Response Line: ++962795767989 

Or: STS Ethics Email: ethics@sts.com.jo 

You may do so without fear of retaliation.  

If you have any questions or doubt about any aspect of the Code, consult your STS Manager or the STS 
Ethics Office or another appropriate STS person.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Employment Conditions 

V1-2021 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 3: EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS 

STS  expects  employees  to  use  good  judgment  in  the  performance  of  their  duties  and  to  maintain  a 
satisfactory  employee/employer  relationship.  We  expect  employees  to  do  their  best  work  in  their 
positions, with integrity and a commitment to excellence. 

This policy defines employment conditions for employees to complete work assignments at STS. 

EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS 

•  The employee is not obliged to undertake work that is significantly different from the agreed upon 
work in the work contract unless the necessity requires so in order to prevent the occurrence of 
an accident, repair what has resulted from such accident, or in case of force majeure and in other 
cases stipulated by law provided that this shall be within the employee's capability and within the 
limits of the condition that has entailed that work. 

•  Employees are paid on the first working day of the month. 

•  Employees should be committed to the following guidelines: 

1.  Should personally perform their duties to an acceptable standard. 
2.  Should be well groomed, clean and presentable and dressed in an appropriate manner. 
3.  Should abide by the orders of the manager in relation to implementing the agreed upon work 
within the limits that do not expose him/her to danger and do not constitute a violation to 
the provisions of the applicable laws or public morals. 

4.  Keep the confidentiality of the industrial secrets of the employer and shall not disclose them 
in any way even after the expiry of the work contract in accordance with what the agreement 
or custom entails. 

5.  Keep the  tools given to him/her to perform his/her work such as  work equipment and  all 

instruments related to his/her work. 

6.  Take  the  required  medical  examinations  required  by  the  work  nature  before  the 
commencement of work to check that the employee is free of the occupational or contagious 
diseases.  

HOURS OF WORK   

STS operates at a minimum of forty-two and a half hours a week.  Actual daily working hours are eight 
and  a half  hours in which a  half an  hour break is  included, from Sunday  to Thursday.  However, some 
positions require working on shifts basis, for these positions the direct manger will be  arranging for a 
monthly schedule for the staff as per work requirements. The Company can change the timings of work 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in accordance with work requirements.  During the holy month of Ramadan, office working hours will be 
modified upon the discretion of the Company. 

GUIDELINES 

•  The standard working hours are from 08:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All employees must punch in upon 
arrival  in  the  morning  and  punch  out  upon  departure  once  they  leave  the  premises  of  the 
company. 

•  Employees are entitled to up to 30 minutes break during the day for prayers, smoking or eating 
so long as they perform such activities within the company premises and in designated areas. 
Employees cannot leave the company premises during their breaks. 

Employees  cannot  leave  the  company  premises  during  working  hours  in  order  to  carry  out 
personal chores, unless they obtain prior permission through MenaMe (STS’s automated leave 
request module) or from their direct supervisor, providing this will not disrupt their work and that 
the matter is urgent and cannot be delayed.  In all cases, the time away from work should not 
exceed Four hours/day.  Hours away from work will be added up and every eight hours will be 
deducted as one day of the annual leave.   

•  All employees away from the office during working hours for work-related purposes must fill out 
a business leave request detailing to their direct manager or their project manager/team lead 
their whereabouts and the time they will be expected to be away.  Cases that are not reported 
will  be  considered  as  absences  and  will  be  deducted  from leave  periods  without  the  need  to 
inform the employee 

•  Upon eligibility some employees are entitled to work remotely from home for certain days per 
month/year. When working from home, employees are to be online and accessible during official 
working hours and are expected to check-in with their managers at least once a day. 

For more details, please see the Work from Home Policy and Attendance Policy.  

OVERTIME 

STS strives to ensure that employees are generally able to complete their work tasks and responsibilities 
within the work week.  However due to the job nature of some departments, employees are requested 
to  work  longer  than  their  whole  weekly  designated  working  hours  (42.5  hours)  and/or  during  the 
weekend.  Any time scheduled over 42.5 hours must be pre-authorized by the supervisor/Department 
Manager. Meanwhile STS permits overtime compensation for departments who are dealing with projects 
or clients on 24/7 basis.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Who is eligible for overtime compensation? 

Non-exempt  employees  working  on  24/7  projects  in  will  receive  overtime  based  on  STS  overtime 
(Weekday  or  Weekend)  calculation.    Exempt  employees  such  as  executives,  managers,  directors,  and 
independent salespeople do not get paid for any overtime.   

Overtime Calculation 

STS Jordan Employees: STS has set the overtime calculation in-line with the Jordanian Labour Law, below 
is the full details on how overtime is paid: 

a)  Each employee asked to work for more than the normal working hours upon his/her consent shall 
receive  remuneration  for  the  overtime  working  hours  that  shall  not  be  less  than  125%  of  his/her 
normal remuneration for the overtime worked. 

b)  In case the employee shall be working on his/her weekend, the national days or the official holidays, 
then he/she shall receive an extra remuneration for such day that shall not be less than (150%) of 
his/her normal remuneration for the overtime worked.  

(In weekdays: salary per hour*overtime hours * 1.25, In Holidays/Weekends: salary per hour*overtime 
hours * 1.5) 

STS KSA Employees: STS has set the overtime calculation in-line with the Saudi Labour Law, below is how 
overtime is paid: 

• 

(for All weekdays: Basic Salary per hour*overtime hours * 1.5) 

Break-time during the overtime  

Any break-time (i.e., lunch break or short breaks) taken by employee during the Overtime working hours 
will not be included in the overtime calculations.   

Delivery of Overtime Registration Forms  

Overtime registration forms shall be submitted on the system to Accounting department monthly no later 
than 19th of each month.  Forms must be filled by employee and approved by the direct manager.  In the 
case that overtime forms are not delivered on time, payment for overtime will be delayed to the following 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
month.  Approved  overtime  forms  that  are  older  than  two  months  will  not  be  processed  and  will  be 
considered cancelled. 

Overtime Registration Form 

Official STS overtime registration form is available on TWE by going to Sites – Finance – Finance-Overtime. 
Any overtime record filled in any different format will be rejected. All fields in the overtime sheet must be 
completed with full description of the project/site and other needed information. Overtime hours shall 
be registered in 24 hours’ format. Form shall be approved by the Direct Manager. 

CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT  

•  STS Group has established a “Code of Ethics & Business Conduct” and appointed an associate of 

the company charged with the responsibility of monitoring and perfecting this process.   

•  STS’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct summarizes the legal and ethical principles that we 

follow in our daily work and applies these principles to our policies and practices.  

•  Following the Code of Conduct is mandatory for all STS employees, staff and affiliated persons.   
•  Failure to comply with the code is a serious matter and can lead to disciplinary action (up to and 

including termination). 

•  STS has established an independent function to administer and oversee the Ethics program with 
the  guidance  of  the  Ethics  Officer who  conducts investigations where  there  are  allegations  of 
misconduct, and takes part in monitoring activities, such as audits, to assess areas of risk within 
the Company. 

Please refer to the “STS Code of Ethics” for more information. 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Compensation & Benefits 

V1-2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 10: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 

The purpose of this policy is to outline the current STS compensation and benefits system and to ensure 
a consistent, fair, equitable and performance-driven Compensation and Benefits system that is aligned to 
STS overall strategies and objectives by defining compensation structures for different job families and 
aligning rewards to performance through corporate, division and individual KPIs. 

 STS  acknowledges  that  the  marketplace  from  which  it  recruits  and  competes  for  talent  recognises 
position and seniority as a factor in determining compensation and benefits. However, use of years of 
experience alone for calculating pay is not a reflection of the organisation's respect for the contribution 
from all employees. 

• 

It is the policy of STS to compensate employees with salaries that attract and retain qualified 
personnel, ensure equitable salary within the organisation of personnel  performing similar 
work and recognising significant differences in the relative value of each job function. 

•  The compensation structure of STS is also designed to provide salaries and benefits that are 
competitive with those paid by similar organisations in the markets/countries STS operates 
in. 

•  Employee  salaries  and  benefits  are  determined  by  their  ranks,  competencies,  individual 

performances and the nature of the job. 

•  The Human Resources Department is responsible for the administration of compensation and 

benefits.   

•  STS pay structure consists of both fixed and variable elements; those will be outlined in further 

details throughout the policy.   

DEFINITIONS 

For the purpose of this policy, below is a list of terms used and their definitions in  relation to this 
policy 

Total Reward 

Total compensation paid to an employee 

Pay Mix 

The mix of Fixed pay, Variable pay and Benefits that form an employee’s 
total compensation.     

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Pay 

Benefits 

Variable Pay 

Base salary paid to employees in return for work performed and includes, 
where applicable, Transportation and Housing Allowances.  It does NOT 
include  benefits,  bonuses, 
incentives,  commissions,  or  any  other 
compensation from STS.  

Benefits refer to employee non-cash benefits such as Health Insurance, 
Life Insurance and Vacations. 

An employee’s compensation that is used to recognize and reward the 
employee’s  performance  and 
company 
goals/objectives.  . 

contribution 

towards 

Base Rewards 

Objective-Based  Rewards  that  are  tied  to  Financial  and  Non-Financial 
targets.  It includes Base Commissions and Incentives 

Actual Reward 

The  actual  reward  paid  out  to  employees  taking  into  account  their 
performance results and their Base Reward  

Special Rewards 

Rewards  given  to  individuals  regardless  of  appraisal,  position,  or  the 
division/department  within  STS  and  within  guidelines  set  by 
Management.    Different  Special  Rewards  apply  to  different  groups  of 
people.  

Innovation Rewards 

Rewards given for specific ideas presented to a Reward Committee for 
review and then presented to management.  For an idea to qualify as an 
innovation reward it must be an idea that generates revenue and is NOT 
a line item in our budget 

REWARD SYSTEM STRUCTURE 

Total Reward Fixed Pay Variable Pay Benefits Special Rewards Innovation Rewards Objective-Based Rewards Financial Targets None-Financial Targets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                   
FIXED PAY 

SALARIES 

This section of the policy deals mainly with the fixed pay portion of the STS Compensation and 
Benefits System. 

STARTING SALARIES 

•  Employees’ starting salary and allowances are fixed by mutual agreement in the Offer Letter 
prior to commencement of employment.  The starting salary will not be lower than the 
minimum salary of rank for which an individual has been recruited.   

•  STS Salaries are paid on the first working day of the month; these will be transferred to the 

employee’s bank account.  In some locations, STS will request that employees provide accounts 
at a certain Bank for the transfer of payroll.  In such cases, should an employee choose to use a 
bank other than the bank requested by STS then his/her pay will be transferred to the 
Company’s bank with instructions to automatically deposit the salary into the concerned 
employees account in his/her bank.  Any and all charges and/or delays related to such a transfer 
are borne by the employee.  

• 

In cases where an employee has not worked a full month, e.g., new recruits, those on unpaid 
leave, etc., salaries will be calculated pro-rata on the basis of 1/30th of the total for each day 
worked. 

•  Any information or documents (salary raises, transportation, overtime, deductions, etc.) that are 
to be included in salaries must be signed, approved, and delivered to the relevant departments 
no later than the 15th of every month.  If the 15th lies on a weekend or public holiday, then they 
must be delivered to the relevant departments by the last working day before the 15th  

•  For Jordan, the concerned departments are as follows: 

I. 
II. 
III. 

Overtime – Accounting 
Domestic Trips - (requiring overnight stay) - HR 
Transportation– Accounting  

For all other STS offices, the concerned department is accounting in each location for all payroll 
related matters 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OVERTIME 

•  STS strives to ensure that employees are generally able to complete their work tasks and 
responsibilities within the work week.  However due to the nature of some jobs and 
commitments we have to our clients to provide the best service and support available in the 
market, some employees/functions are requested to work outside regular working hours 
whether it is after hours or on weekends and/or public holidays.  In such cases, in Jordan 
only, employees may qualify for overtime as per the Jordanian Labour Law.  

•  To be eligible for overtime payments, overtime assignments must be limited to support and 
maintenance calls for 24/7 contracts.  In order to process overtime with payroll, employees 
who have worked overtime must fill in the relevant form on TWE and submit it for approval 
by their managers after which they must be passed to HR for final approval no later than the 
15th of every month so they can be processed with the current month’s payroll. If the 15th 
lies on a weekend or public holiday, then they must be delivered to the relevant 
departments by the last working day before the 15th  

• 

In the rare cases where overtime is related to work other than on 24/7 support and 
maintenance calls, no overtime will be paid unless the overtime is approved in advance by 
HR and it is the responsibility of the employee to make sure this approval is given.  Any such 
overtime requests submitted after the overtime took place will not be processed or paid.  

•  STS has set the overtime calculation in-line with the Jordanian Labour Law, below is the full 

details on how overtime is paid: 

a.  Any overtime worked during the working week but outside the official working hours for 
Jordan (08:30 to 17:00 Sunday through Thursday inclusive) shall receive remuneration for 
the overtime working hours equal to 125% of his/her normal remuneration. 

i.  On  week  days:  1-hour  overtime  equals  1.25  JD  multiplied  by  the  employee’s 
hourly rate calculated as employee’s salary/240. For example, an employee with 
a salary of 450 JD who is asked to work overtime on a weekday for 4 hours will 
have overtime calculated as follows: 
ii.  4 hours * 450/240 * 1.25 = 9.375 JD 

b.  Any overtime worked on weekends or official public holidays then he/she shall receive 

remuneration equal to 1.50% of his/her normal remuneration. 

On weekend or official public holidays: 1-hour overtime equals 1.50 JD multiplied by the 
employee’s hourly rate calculated as employee’s salary/240. For example, an employee 
with a salary of 450 JD who is asked to work overtime on a weekday for 4 hours will have 
overtime calculated as follows: 

4 hours * 450/240 * 1.5 = 11.25 JD 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Break-time  during  the  overtime:  Any  break-time  (i.e.  lunch  break  or  short  breaks)  taken  by 
employee during Overtime working hours will not be included in the overtime calculations.  For 
example: if employee worked from 8:00 till 17:00 and took one-hour lunch break then he/she is 
eligible to 8 (eight) hours overtime. 

•  Overtime  Registration  Form:    Official  STS  overtime  registration  form  is  available  on  TWE.  Any 
overtime record filled in any different format will be rejected. All fields in the overtime sheet have 
to  be  completed  with  a  full  description  about  the  project/site  and  other  needed  information. 
Overtime  hours  shall  be  registered  in  24  hours’  format.  Form  shall  be  signed  by  Head  of 
department and HR department.  

•  Delivery of Overtime Registration Forms:  In order to process overtime with payroll, employees 
who have worked overtime must fill in the relevant form on TWE and submit it for approval by 
their managers after which they must be passed to HR for final approval no later than the 15th of 
every  month  so  they  can  be  processed  with  the  current  month’s  payroll.  If  the  15th  lies  on  a 
weekend or public holiday, then they must be delivered to the relevant departments by the last 
working  day  before  the  15th.  Approved  overtime  registration  forms  that  are  older  than  two 
months will not be approved by HR Department.  

SALARY CHANGES (ADJUSTMENTS/RAISES) 

•  At STS salaries reviews are linked to performance appraisals and usually take place at the 

beginning of the calendar year (once the previous year appraisals are completed).  Raises may 
be delayed to another time during the year based on Management decision. 

•  At the beginning of every year, Management sets a budget for raises and each division manager 
is given guidelines to follow in setting salary raises for his/her employees.   All raises must be 
approved by Management before they are finalised and processed.  

•  Raise frequency and amount are governed by many factors such as company performance, 

division performance, individual performance, and division and company budgets among other 
things.  There is no rule or policy at STS that says every individual is entitled to a raise every year 
just as there is no rule or policy at STS that says STS will give raises every year.   

SALARY REPORTING AND DEDUCTIONS 

•  Different countries have different legislations and deductions that apply to payroll. At STS all 

payroll deductions and requirements such as GOSI, Social Security, Income tax and so forth are 
automatically deducted from payroll and any reporting and payments to legal authorities are 
made by Finance and Accounting  

•  For Jordan, at the end of each year, and upon closure of the Company’s fiscal year, the Company 
fills in the employee’s tax form for all income the employee earned from the Company for the 
calendar year in order for the employee to be able to settle his/her income taxes before the 
income tax department deadline.  These forms are given to employees by the beginning of 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
February of every year and employees must submit a copy of their annual income tax clearance 
from the Income Tax Department to accounting by April 30th at the latest.  Any penalties the 
employee may incur for not doing his/her Income Tax clearance on time are the responsibility of 
the employee.  In addition, any deductions or penalties that are imposed by the Income and 
Sales Tax Department on STS due to employee tax deductions inaccuracies or differences will be 
deducted from the employee 

SALARY DISPUTES 

•  For STS Jordan, KSA, Bahrain and UAE, once payroll has been submitted to the bank and 

deposited in employee accounts, an automatic notification is emailed to employees from the 
HRIS (MenaMe) notifying them that their salaries have been deposited and outlining the 
breakdown of all the amounts paid. 

•  Any enquiry related to mistakes in the salary slip, should be reported immediately to Accounting 
(forty-eight hours after receipt of the salary slip).  Any mistake will be corrected as soon as 
possible. 

SALARY ADVANCES 

It is against Company policy to give salary advances. 

ALLOWANCES 

The pay policy at STS includes a number of different allowances paid to individuals based on 
location, rank/seniority or nature of work.  Below is a list of the most common allowances paid by 
STS: 

HOUSING ALLOWANCES 

This allowance is mainly paid out to non-national employees located in our GCC offices.  As per the 
common practice in the GCC region, the housing allowance is set to equal 25% of the basic salary 
paid out to employees.  This allowance is set regardless of how much an employee’s actual housing 
costs are.  If an employee’s housing expenses are less than the allowance, then the employee is 
entitled to keep the difference himself/herself.  On the other hand, if an employee’s housing costs 
are higher than the set allowance, then the employee must bear this additional expense 
himself/herself.  

Any raises, adjustments or rank allowances awarded to an employee throughout their tenure at STS 
are split so that 72% of the amount is allocated to Basic Salary, 18% to Housing Allowance and 10% 
to Transportation allowance.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCES 

This is yet another allowance that is paid out mainly to non-national employees located in our GCC 
offices as well as a select few in our Jordan office. 

For those in our GCC offices and as per the common practice in the GCC region, the transportation 
allowance is set to equal 10% of the basic salary paid out to employees.  This allowance is meant to 
cover any and all costs related to travel (except those covered in other sections of this policy 
manual) including but not limited to, gas, car loans/payments, car maintenance, other 
transportation options such as taxis or metros, toll fees where applicable (such as Salik fees in the 
UAE), etc…  

This allowance is set regardless of how much an employee’s actual transportations costs are.  If an 
employee’s transportation expenses are less than the allowance, then the employee is entitled to 
keep the difference himself/herself.  On the other hand, if an employee’s transportation costs are 
higher than the set allowance, then the employee must bear this additional expense himself/herself.  

In Jordan a set monthly transportation allowance is allocated to Products and Solutions and Account 
Management employees ranked D1 and D2 only. 

The transportation allowance outlined in this section should not be confused with the travel 
expenses covered in the Travel Policy.  

Any raises, adjustments or rank allowances awarded to an employee throughout their tenure at STS 
are split so that 72% of the amount is allocated to Basic Salary, 18% to Housing Allowance and 10% 
to Transportation allowance.  

OTHER ALLOWANCES 

STS may, at any time, introduce temporary additional allowances as per the needs of the business in 
different locations and/or for different groups of people.  Any such allowances will be announced to 
all concerned in due time and said allowances will continue to be paid until they are no longer valid 
at which time an announcement will be made to let those concerned know that the allowance will 
be removed.  

VARIABLE PAY 

Different job families or functions are entitled to different variable pay elements.  For sales related 
functions, the Base Reward depends heavily on financial targets and for Non-sales functions the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Base Reward is based solely on non-financial targets.  All will be paid in the form of Performance 
Based Rewards.    

STS employees are split into two major categories: 

•  Non-Sales-Related roles whose Objective-Based Rewards are solely dependent on achievements 
on Non-Financial Targets.  In this case, Non-Financial targets will account for 100% of the Appraisal 
•  Sales-Related roles whose Objective-Based Rewards contain a mix of Financial and Non-Financial 
Targets.  The actual split between financial and non-financial targets differs from group to group 
and sometimes from role to role.  

TYING REWARDS TO KPIS 

The Objective Based Rewards of the reward system are based solely on KPIs and objectives, both 
financial and Non-financial.   

The actual reward each person earns at the end of each review year will be based on the individuals 
performance appraisal result and will be calculate by multiplying the Base Reward by the appraisal 
result. With regards to Financial Targets and achievements on said targets, the commission scheme 
guidelines from the relevant section in the Compensation and Benefits Policy will apply with some 
conditions such over and under achievement reflected in the appraisal results as per the policy 
(double up and down). 

For example, if an individual’s Base Reward is 4000 USD and their appraisal result is 87% then their 
actual performance based reward will be calculated as follows: 

 4000 USD * 0.87 = 3480 USD 

BASE REWARDS FOR NON-SALES RELATED STAFF 

•  STS  offers  an  incentive  scheme  that  is  based  on  employee  performance  and  that  aims  to 
encourage and reward top performers from the General Services, Administration, Technical and 
Engineering  teams.   STS  current Base  Reward amount  (the  Base  Reward for  non-sales related 
employees) is set at the equivalent of one month’s basic salary from the last salary of the year 
(this amount includes the portion of raises or rank allowances added to the basic salary earned 
during the year but does not include housing or transportation allowances or the portion of raises 
and/or Rank Allowances added to them). 

•  The Actual Reward for non-sales related employees is calculated at the end of the fiscal year as 

follows 

Actual Reward = Employee Performance Appraisal Score * Employee’s Base Reward 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  To ease cash flow for employees, STS pays out the incentive over 4 payments made with March, 

June, September and December salaries as follows: 

a.  March, June and September Salary Incentive Payments – 25% of Base Reward each (for 

a total of 75% of Base Reward) 

b.  December Salary Incentive Payment – The remainder of the Actual Reward amount 
calculated as the Actual Reward – all payments already made to the employee.   

• 

• 

In the case where an employee received a salary raise, adjustment or rank allowance during the 
year  and  that  affects  their  Base  Reward  value,  an  adjustment  is  made  to  the  first  incentive 
payment made after this adjustment/raise/rank allowance so that the difference from previous 
payments is made up. 

If at the time any of the incentive payments is made, an employee has not yet completed 6 months 
of employment with STS, then this employee’s advances or actual rewards are not paid until the 
first  incentive payment after they complete 6 months at STS but  their payment will cover the 
entire time they have been at STS. Should an employee leave STS without completing 6 months 
of employment then they are not entitled to any reward/incentive.  

Below are examples of base reward (incentive) payment calculation for new hires: 

a. 

If a person was hired on 15/3/2014 with a salary of 400 JD and their 2014 Appraisal 
Score was 95%, then they are entitled to incentives in 2014 as by 31/12/2014 they 
would have completed 6 months at STS. The calculation would be as follows: 

Their average salary (incentive salary) for the year 2014 is calculated as 400 JD * 9.5/12 
(for number of months worked during the year) = 316.667 JD  
The first Incentive payment they will receive will be at the end of quarter 3 (01/10/2014) 
and so their incentive will be paid over 2 quarters.  
The first payment will be 316.667/2 = 158.333 JD 
The second payment will be 316.667*0.95 (appraisal score) – 158.333 (advance 
incentive already paid) = 142.5 JD 

b. 

If a person was hired on 15/7/2014 with a salary of 400 JD then they will not get any 
incentive payments in 2014 because they would not have completed 6 months with STS 
by the end of 2014.  However, their payments will be delayed till 2015 and will use their 
2015 appraisal result for the final calculations.    With an appraisal score of 95% in 2015,  
the calculation would be as follows: 

Their average salary (incentive salary) for the period 2014 - 2015 is calculated as 400 JD 
* 17.5/12 (for number of months worked during the appraisal cycle) = 583.333 JD  
The first Incentive payment they will receive will be at the end of quarter 1in 2015 
(01/4/2015) and so their incentive will be paid over 4 quarters.  
The first, second and third payments will each be 583.333/4 = 145.833 JD 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The final payment will be 583.333*0.95 (appraisal score) – (145.833*3) (advance 
incentive already paid) = 116.667 JD 

BASE REWARDS FOR SALES-RELATED STAFF 

•  STS  offers  a  commission  scheme  that  is  based  on  employee  performance  and  that  aims  to 
encourage  and  reward  top  performers  in  sales-related  roles.    For  sales-related  roles,  a  base 
commission is set as the Base Reward amount and the amount differs depending on many factors 
that include, but are not limited to, rank, positon and location of position.   

•  The Actual Reward for sales related employees is calculated at the end of the fiscal year as follows 

Actual Reward = Employee Performance Appraisal Score * Employee’s Base Reward  

•  To  ease  cash  flow  for  employees,  STS  pays  commission  payments  throughout  the  year  (for 

returning employees) as per the following schedule: 

c.  Balance of unpaid actual reward (actual commissions) from the previous year are paid in 

equal instalments with January – June salaries inclusive 

d.  50% of the Base Reward for the sales-related employee is paid in 6 equal instalments 

paid with July to December Salaries inclusive 

For new hires, once an employee has completed 6 months at STS then their sales invoices and 
numbers are evaluated and, once the numbers justify it, they begin getting the advance of their 
base reward split over the remaining months of the year (always beginning July 1st or later).  

Sales-Related rewards are governed by the Commission System Guidelines outlined in the relevant 
policy. 

Note: Incentives and commissions administration is subject to change depending on company’s 
profitability and Management’s decision. For more information about the current year’s policy, 
please refer to HR department.   

SPECIAL REWARDS 

As defined above, Special Rewards are rewards given to individuals regardless of appraisal, position 
or the division/department within STS and within guidelines set by Management on a year-by-year 
basis.  Different Special Rewards apply to different groups of people.  Definitions and guidelines are 
defined and announced at the beginning of each year by email and are valid for the time frame 
announced only.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BENEFITS 

The pay policy STS includes a number of different benefits provide to employees depending on a 
variety of factors.  Below are the details of the benefits provided by STS. 

HEALTH INSURANCE 

STS provides health insurance to all its employees.  Depending on the rank of employees, they are 
insured at different levels and may include their family members in the group insurance plan after a 
certain period has elapsed since their hire date.  This period varies depending on the rank of the 
employee. Certain terms and conditions in Health Insurance contracts as well as insurance and visa 
regulations in different countries may dictate differences in the benefits in different countries in 
which STS operates.  Details on the enrolment in the Company Health Insurance Plan in different STS 
locations and for different ranks can be found in the Ranking Policy.   

While STS tries to maintain uniformity with its Health Insurance coverage, some differences are 
bound to appear between different locations to account for different providers, country regulations 
and the number of insured people in the contract. 

STS will provide, at the beginning of each Insurance Contract Year, a list of terms, conditions, 
benefits, coverage and exceptions for each insurance policy/contract.  It is each employee’s 
responsibility to make sure s/he reads, understands and abides by the prevailing insurance policy.  

An employee may upgrade his/her own insurance and that of his/her family at his/her own expense 
when registering in the insurance plan.  The difference in premiums is split over 12 months and 
deducted from the employee’s salary at the end of each month.  Employees may only change the 
level of insurance they register for at the renewal stage of the insurance contract year, no changes 
are permitted once the contract year has commenced.  The employee and his/her entire family 
must be insured at the same level.  

In case of misuse of policy terms by the insured, or of allowing another person to use the policy, or 
giving false medical information and reports, the insurance company has the right not to pay the 
invoices, to stop coverage for the insured without paying him/her back the balance due, and to ask 
for any prepaid invoices that proved to be false later on. 

Employees in Jordan are required to return a copy of any insurance form they have used in order for 
them to receive additional forms.  A limited number of forms (according to the insurance contract 
and the level of insurance) is allocated for each employee and family member, insured employees 
and their family members may not consume more forms than those assigned.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Health Insurance benefit is a privilege and it is the responsibility of those ensured not to abuse 
it, abuse of the benefit will lead to higher insurance premiums and co-payment rates for all involved.  
STS has a right to investigate any case where they feel Medical Insurance is being abused.  

If an employee wants to opt out of the Medical Insurance for him/herself and/or his/her family they 
must inform HR of this in writing.  An employee may not insure his/her family unless they are 
insured as well. 

LIFE INSURANCE 

STS employees in all locations have a life insurance policy for the employee only.  The value and terms 
and conditions of the Life Insurance policy vary from location to location.  The only exception to this is 
employees in KSA as the laws in KSA prohibit Life Insurance Policies so STS can’t provide such policies 
for its employees there.    The beneficiary/beneficiaries of this life insurance policy are the legal heirs 
of the employee. 

If an employee wants to waive their right to the Life Insurance, they must inform HR of this in 
writing.   

ANNUAL TICKETS 

For non-national employees in STS KSA, Bahrain and UAE offices, STS provides annual tickets to 
employees and their families as governed by the below guidelines: 

•  The airport nominated in the employment contract will be considered as the employee’s home 

airport. 

•  Employees in certain grades on STS Group’s sponsorship are entitled to “family status” tickets (i.e. 

tickets for spouse and children under the age of 18 or 22 if still a student at University) 

•  All employees in STS KSA and STS Bahrain offices are entitled to tickets once every 12 months 

governed by their hire date.   

•  For STS UAE office, all employees ranked A1 – D3 are entitled to tickets once every 24 months and 
all employees ranked E1 and above are entitled to tickets once every 12 months governed by their 
hire dates. 

•  STS is unable to issue tickets in advance if an employee requests his/her ticket earlier than the 

anniversary of their hire date. 

•  All new and eligible employees are entitled to air tickets only on completion of one year’s service 
with the Company.  If an employee has not yet completed one year’s service in their new location 
and they want to travel home, they have to do so at their own expense.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The Company will provide excursion tickets to all employees and their family if applicable, except 
when specified otherwise in their contract.  If an employee doesn’t use his/her tickets, then they 
are entitled to their equivalent in cash unless they have resigned or been terminated.  The cash 
value of the tickets is as per point 9 below. 

•  On resignation or termination, accrued air tickets will not be paid in cash to employees.  
•  Each year, STS will set a price for tickets for Adults, Children and Infants from each location to 
employee home countries.  Should an employee book his/her tickets through the STS before the 
specified deadline, STS will cover the actual costs of the tickets.  Should an employee book tickets 
through their own agents at any time or after the specified deadline through STS, then STS will 
cover  the  cost  of  the  tickets  up  to  the  limits  set,  any  additional  costs  will  be  incurred  by  the 
employee.  Details of this will be sent to all concerned employees by email at the beginning of 
every calendar year  

•  Should  an  employee request  changes  or  refunds  on  their  tickets,  the  employee will  bear  any 

penalties or fees such changes will incur.  

•  Should an employee decide to take cash instead of their tickets (where applicable), STS will pay 

the amounts set as per point 7 above in the year that the ticket is due. 

•  Annual Tickets in KSA and UAE are handled by the Accounting person in charge in the respective 

location.  Annual tickets for the team in Bahrain are handled by HR in Jordan. 
•  All Annual Tickets and their related prices are based on Economy Fare tickets. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Relocation Policy 

V1-2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 19: RELOCATION POLICY 

The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines for providing support and assistance to employees 
who relocate at the request of STS as well as to outline the associated procedure for this policy. 
It is STS’s intent to encourage the mobility of current employees as well as to facilitate the hiring of 
employees by providing financial assistance to relocating employees and new hires eligible under this 
policy. 
An employee should expect to be transferred/relocated should the business requirements call for it and 
he/she is asked to do so officially. 

ELIGIBILITY  

The provisions outlined here apply to authorized moves for current employees as well as new hires 
whose official employment offers include specified relocation from their current place of residence.   

If two family members working at STS (husband and wife) are relocated in the same instance to the 
same location, it will be regarded as a single relocation and only one set of relocation benefits will be 
provided. 

DEFINITIONS 

For the purpose of this policy, below is a list of terms used and their definitions in relation to this policy 

Relocation Grant 

A one-time optional payment made to the employee upon relocation to assist 
with expenses such as, but not necessarily limited to: 
•  Packing, transportation, and unpacking of furniture and personal effects 

or the purchase of new furniture upon arrival to the destination. 

•  Unavoidable penalties or similar costs incurred as a result of the transfer 
(e.g.  export  charges  for  car  re-registration,  first  time  deposits,  deposits 
such as rent and telephone, etc.). 

•  Costs  of  transferring  licenses,  visas,  or  registrations  resulting  from  the 

transfer. 

Relocation grants are amortized over a period of 3 years.  In the event that the 
employee  voluntarily  terminates  employment  within  three  years  of  the 
relocation date, the employee will reimburse STS the remaining value of the 
grant.  I.e. if the employee leaves STS voluntarily after 18 months then they 
will be required to reimburse STS half the amount of the relocation grant.  In 
the event that the employee voluntarily terminates employment after three 
years from the relocation date then they are not required to return any part 
of the relocation grant.  
An employee has 3 months from the date of relocation to claim this grant; if 
s/he does not claim the grant within this timeframe then they forfeit the right 
to the grant. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relocation Loan 

Mobilization Costs 

A one-time optional loan given to employees to offer further assistance with 
their relocation should they require it.  This loan must be repaid to STS over a 
set  period  of  time  not  exceeding  12  months  for  married  relocation  and  6 
months for single relocation. 
An employee has 3 months from the date of relocation to claim this loan; if 
s/he does not claim the loan within this timeframe then they forfeit the right 
to the loan. 

Actual costs related to the mobilization of the employee and, in the case of 
married  relocation,  the  employee’s  immediate  family.    Mobilization  costs 
include  mobilization  tickets,  residency  processing  and  residency  visa  fees.  
Mobilization tickets are one-way tickets from the employee’s current city to 
the city the employee is being relocated to. 

Temporary Housing 
Assistance 

Temporary Housing Assistance is an option STS provides to a relocating 
employee by arranging for the housing of the employee in a hotel for the first 
two weeks after his/her arrival at the new location within the guidelines 
outlined in this policy.  

Employee’s Family 

Employee spouse and children only. This does not include dependent parents, 
relatives or in-laws.  

RELCOATION BETWEEN COUNTRIES 

FOR CURRENT EMPLOYEES 

•  This section of the policy outlines guidelines and benefits for current STS employees relocating, for 

the first time, from Jordan to another country in which STS operates on a permanent basis.  

•  When current employees are asked to relocate to an STS location in a different country than the one 

in which they are currently employed, the employment contract in the current location is 
terminated, all entitlements settled and a new contract is issued for the relocating employee as per 
the prevailing laws, guidelines, policies and regulations of the new location.  

• 

In the case where a current employee is relocated for the first time then they are entitled to the 
following one time only benefits: 

A relocation grant 
A relocation loan 

1. 
2. 
3.  Mobilization costs  
4. 

Temporary Housing Assistance 

•  Relocation may be awarded on single or married status.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 

In the case where relocation is granted on a married status then STS will cover the mobilization costs 
for the employee’s family as well as the employee. If relocation is granted on a single status then 
STS will cover mobilization costs for the employee alone.  

•  Temporary Housing Assistance is offered to the employee alone, regardless of whether the 

employee is being relocated as a single individual or a married one.  The reason for this is that a 
relocating employee is mostly unable to take his/her family with them immediately as they need to 
issue their own residencies before they can bring in dependents.   

•  Relocation loans must be paid back within a set period of time as per the guidelines of this policy. 

•  STS is aware that in some cases, an employee is unfamiliar with the new city they are relocating to 
and so STS provides the option of Temporary Housing Assistance to an employee.  Temporary 
Housing Assistance is an option STS provides to a relocating employee by arranging for the housing 
of the employee in a hotel for the first 2 weeks after his/her arrival at the new location at STS’s 
expense to allow the employee time to familiarize him/herself with their new city and search for 
suitable accommodations.   

•  Health insurance for relocating employees and their families (where applicable) will remain valid in 
the employee’s current location until health insurance is issued for the entire family in the new 
location.  

• 

• 

In the case where a relocating employee from Jordan who is given a married status contract in the 
new location prefers to relocate alone and not with his/her family opting to leave their family in 
Jordan, then they have the option of maintaining their Jordan health insurance for the entire family 
at the expense of STS and insuring only themselves in the new location also at the expense of STS.  If 
the employee later decides to move his/her family then STS will cover their insurance in the new 
location and cancel their insurance in Jordan. 

Jordanian employees relocating from the Jordan office to another location with their families have 
the option of maintaining their Jordanian Health Insurance, at their expense, while STS will cover 
Health Insurance for the entire family at the new location (for Family Status contracts). In this case, 
the employee is expected to pay the annual premium for the entire family up front once they opt to 
take advantage of this benefit and from then on at the beginning of every renewed contract period 
and until the employee either asks for it to be cancelled or the employee leaves the employment of 
STS. An employee opting to take advantage of this option must be aware that they will be subject to 
the terms and conditions of the STS group contract and that an employee may not insure part of 
their family, the employee must ensure either themselves only or themselves and their entire 
family. 

•  Below are the details for relocation benefits for married and single employees in each STS location: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relocation Benefits: 

UAE: 

Marital Status  Relocation Grant 

Relocation Loan  

Single 
Married 

13K AED 
20K AED 

6K AED 
12K AED 

Loan Repayment 
Period 
6 months 
12 months 

Mobilization 

Single 
Family 

KSA: 

Marital Status  Relocation Grant 

Relocation Loan  

Single 
Married 

13K SAR 
20K SAR 

6K SAR 
12K SAR 

Loan Repayment 
Period 
6 months 
12 months 

Mobilization 

Single 
Family 

• 

If a Jordanian employee that has been previously relocated from Jordan to another STS location is 
relocated back to Jordan then they are entitled to the following: 

a.  Actual shipping costs for shipping furniture and 1 car.  The shipping of the car does NOT include 
any customs that may be incurred on bringing the car or the furniture back to Jordan (including 
home appliances and electronics) into Jordan. 

b.  Accommodations for one month in Jordan for the employee and his/her immediate family at one 
of STS’s approved locations or the equivalent of the cost of the accommodation in cash, whichever 
the employee opts for. STS will not cover a combination of the two options, only one or the other.  
If the employee’s family already resides in Jordan at the time the employee is relocating back, 
then STS will compensate the employee, upon his return to Jordan, either by providing a single 
room for a month in one of the approved locations or the equivalent of the cost of a single room 
only. 

c.  A one-way ticket from their base to Jordan for the employee and, in the case the employee is on 

a family status contract, for each member of their immediate family. 

•  Relocating employees are not necessarily relocated at the same rank and/or job title whether it is a 
first time relocation or they are returning back to Jordan after having been originally relocated from 
Jordan to another STS location and could be relocated to a different rank and/or title as per their 
new employment contracts. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR NEW EMPLOYEES 

•  This section of the policy outlines guidelines and benefits for newly hired STS employees relocating, 

for the first time, from their country of residency to a different country in which STS operates on a 
permanent basis.  

•  For a newly hired employee to be eligible for relocation assistance as per the guidelines of this 

policy, their employment offer must specifically state that the offer includes relocation assistance as 
per STS Policies.  

• 

In the case where a newly hired employee is provided with relocation assistance as per the terms of 
their employment offer then they are entitled to the following one time only benefits: 

1.  Mobilization costs  
2. 

Temporary Housing Assistance 

•  Relocation may be awarded on single or married status.   

• 

In the case where relocation is granted on a married status then STS will cover the mobilization costs 
for the employee’s family as well as the employee. If relocation is granted on a single status then 
STS will cover mobilization costs for the employee alone.  

•  Temporary Housing Assistance is offered to the employee alone, regardless of whether the 

employee is being relocated as a single individual or a married one.  The reason for this is that a 
relocating employee is mostly unable to take his/her family with them immediately as they need to 
issue their own residencies before they can bring in dependents.   

•  STS is aware that in some cases, an employee is unfamiliar with the new city they are relocating to 
and so STS provides the option of Temporary Housing Assistance to an employee.  Temporary 
Housing Assistance is an option STS provides to a relocating employee by arranging for the housing 
of the employee in a hotel for the first two weeks after his/her arrival at the new location at STS’s 
expense to allow the employee time to familiarize him/herself with their new city and search for 
suitable accommodations.   
In the case where a newly hired, relocating employee from Jordan who is given a married status 
contract in the new location prefers to relocate alone and not with his/her family opting to leave 
their family in Jordan, then they have the option of insuring their families in the Jordan health 
insurance program for the entire family at the expense of STS and insuring only themselves in the 
new location also at the expense of STS.  If the employee later decides to move his/her family then 
STS will cover their insurance in the new location and cancel their insurance in Jordan. 

• 

• 

Jordanian employees relocating from Jordan to another location with their families have the option 
of benefiting from the Jordanian Health Insurance, at their expense, while STS will cover Health 
Insurance for the entire family at the new location (for Family Status contracts). In this case, the 
employee is expected to pay the annual premium for the entire family up front once they opt to 
take advantage of this benefit and from then on at the beginning of every renewed contract period 
and until the employee either asks for it to be cancelled or the employee leaves the employment of 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STS. An employee opting to take advantage of this option must be aware that they will be subject to 
the terms and conditions of the STS group contract and that an employee may not insure part of 
their family, the employee must ensure either themselves only or themselves and their entire 
family. 

•  A Jordanian citizen (whether they are citizens of another country other than Jordan or not) that is 
hired for STS Jordan while residing outside Jordan at the time of signing their employment offer or 
contract, is not entitled to any relocation assistance. 

PROCEDURE 

Below is an outline of STS Employee Relocation Procedures for Current STS employees.  New hire 
relocations are handled as part of the on-boarding process for new employees. 

APPROVAL AND RELOCATION INITIATION FOR CURRENT STS EMPLOYEES 

• 

• 

• 

In all relocation cases for current STS Employees, approval of the GM or Country Manager of the 
branch the employee is relocating to is required before the employee is approached regarding the 
relocation.  

If the relocation of an employee from one STS location to another requires that the employee 
change business units then the employee’s current manager, as well as the employee’s expected 
new manager, must both agree to the relocation before either approach the employee.  The 
managers may do so between themselves or involve HR if they see a need to do so. 

If the relocation of an employee from one STS location to another does not mean a change in 
business unit and manager then the employee’s manager may approach the employee directly to 
discuss the relocation, or if they prefer, they may involve HR. 

•  Once an employee and his/her manager agree to the relocation (including the title and rank of the 
new role), HR must then become involved in order to take care of the relocation details. This must 
take place at least 6-8 weeks prior to the expected start date of the employee in the new location 
and includes the following: 

.1.  Submitting resignation from current location 
.2.  Conducting termination and settlement procedures in current location 
.3.  Completing Relocation Assistance Requirements Checklist 
.4.  Signing a relocation offer (stating new role title, rank, marital status of relocation, salary and 

benefits of new contract) 

.5.  Signing a new employment contract 
.6.  Preparing residency documents for new location 
.7.  Booking tickets and, where applicable, temporary housing for the relocating employee  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS COMPETENCY CATALOGUE 
August 2022 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 

CORE AND MANAGERIAL COMPETENCIES ............................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3 

Accountability and Dependability ...................................................................................................................... 4 

Adaptability and Flexibility................................................................................................................................. 6 

Communication .................................................................................................................................................. 8 

Customer Service ............................................................................................................................................. 10 

Innovation and Creative Thinking .................................................................................................................... 12 

Job Knowledge ................................................................................................................................................. 14 

Negotiating And Influencing ............................................................................................................................ 16 

Planning and Organising .................................................................................................................................. 18 

Problem Solving and Decision Making ............................................................................................................. 20 

Teamwork ........................................................................................................................................................ 22 

Leading and Developing People ....................................................................................................................... 24 

Managing Performance ................................................................................................................................... 27 

Strategic Acumen ............................................................................................................................................. 30 

TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 33 

Business and Project Management ................................................................................................................. 34 

Business Development ..................................................................................................................................... 43 

Design and Architecture .................................................................................................................................. 45 

General Management ...................................................................................................................................... 50 

Governance and Compliance ........................................................................................................................... 51 

People Development ....................................................................................................................................... 55 

Stakeholder and Contract Management ......................................................................................................... 56 

Strategy Planning and Implementation ........................................................................................................... 58 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CORE AND MANAGERIAL COMPETENCIES 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Back to Core Competencies 
Back to Technical Competencies 

Accountability and Dependability 

The extent to which one internalizes and outwardly expresses responsibility for timeliness, commitment to task, adherence to performance standards, and conformity with the 
rules and policies of an organization. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Adheres to basic instructions 

Independently completes routine 
tasks 

Functions under limited 
supervision 

Accounts for department/division 
outcomes 

Accounts for company outcomes 

•  Works independently with 
limited direction in carrying 
out routine assigned tasks 
and projects 

•  Functions under minimal 
supervision in completing 
complex, sensitive 
assignments and projects 

•  Follows rules and 

expectations for work, 
attendance and performance 
as defined, written, and 
implemented by the company 

•  Provides advance notice of 
intended absence and/or 
tardiness 

•  Presents frequent oral and 
written reports on project or 
task status, issues, and 
potential problems. 

•  Takes accountability for team 

outcomes 

• 

Identifies and assists in 
addressing areas of 
weakness that may affect the 
performance of a unit or 
department 

•  Reports to work consistently 
on designated days and 
times 

•  Perseveres through various 

working conditions to 
complete tasks and projects 

•  Follow set procedures and 

•  Shows willingness to work 

•  Takes appropriate measures 

rules 

overtime in order to meet set 
deadlines 

to address group/team 
shortcomings 

•  Accepts ownership of and 

responsibility for own work. 

•  Completes all assigned tasks 
on time and with minimal 
supervision.  

•  Fulfils all commitments made 
to peers, co-workers, and 
supervisor. 

•  Adapts working methods in 
order to achieve objectives.  

•  Works to achieve agreement 
(by offering alternatives, etc.) 
on time frames or objectives 
that can be realistically met. 

•  Shows commitment / 

dedication and accountability 

•  Provides work direction and 

appropriate feedback through 
multiple communication 
channels as deemed 
appropriate  

•  Holds self and other 

•  Holds ultimate responsibility 

accountable for appointed 
responsibilities 

•  Takes a primary role in 

for department and/or 
organisational performance 
and overall effectiveness 

completing and resolving 
more advanced, complex and 
sensitive assignments, 
projects and/or issues 

•  Defines objectives and 
strategies to meet 
stakeholder requirements and 
needs 

•  Employs performance 

•  Maintain a cost-effective 

management strategies to 
promote and ensure staff 
accountability 

•  Facilitates face-to-face 

meetings with 
department/division members 
to communicate short and 
long-term goals and agenda 

•  Solicits workload reports and 

status updates 

balance of controls and risk-
taking to ensure effective and 
efficient operation within 
budget 

•  Address gaps in resources 
that may affect organisation 
performance 

•  Accounts, reports and 

explains the use of resources 
to achieve organisation or 
department performance 
targets, goals and objectives 

•  Holds self and others 

•  Capitalizes on the 

accountable for making 
principled decisions; 

performance management 
process 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 

Informs appropriate 
individuals when assigned 
tasks will not be completed in 
agreed upon time frame.  

in one's work, and follows 
through on all projects, goals, 
aspects of one's work.  

addresses unethical 
behaviours head-on 

•  Takes appropriate measures 
to address performance 
shortcomings 

•  Exceeds his/her commitment 

to others by frequently 
delivering work early 

•  Follow through and meets 
personal commitments to 
others on time 

• 

•  Takes his/her responsibilities 
seriously and consistently 
meets expectations for 
quality, service and 
professionalism 

•  Challenges individuals openly 
and constructively about 
performance problems, 
adapting a firm but fair 
stance.  

•  Demonstrates good resource 
management by using an 
acceptable amount of 
resources to accomplish 
goals/tasks 

•  Consistently inspires others 
to commit to the goals of the 
organisation.  

•  Generates enthusiasm 

among team members for 
accomplishing shared goals 
that elevate the team and 
ensure the organisation’s 
success 

•  Recognises when resources 
are being inappropriately and 
takes steps to ensure other 
leaders are practicing good 
resource management across 
the organisation 

•  Coaches other 

leaders/managers on how to 
gain commitment and buy-in 
to accomplish organisation 
objectives  

• 
Inconsistently meets commitments to others or delivers on commitments late 
•  Occasionally “bends the rules” when faced with pressure from customers or other 

stakeholders 

•  Fails to take ownership of personal or team performance 
•  Refrains from coaching team members to improve performance 

•  Occasionally presents oneself in a way that is inconsistent with the image the 

organisation wants to portray 

•  Sometimes over-utilizes resources  
•  Gains support for some, but not all, key organisation objectives 
•  Dismisses the importance of his/her responsibilities 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adaptability and Flexibility 

Flexible and comfortable in adapting, changing or adjusting practices, procedures, behavioural style or approach when necessary to achieve a goal as appropriate to the needs 
of the situation. Embraces change with a positive attitude taking intelligent risks and supporting others during the change process.   

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Adopts to minor or indirect 
change 

Adapts work method to the 
situation  

Adapts to a wide variety of 
changes/needs  

Adapts to large, complex and/or 
frequent changes  

Adapts organizational strategies  

•  Accepts, understands, 

•  Adapts personal approach, 

•  Adapts to new ideas and 

•  Revises goals when 

•  Performs effectively amidst 

recognizes and 
acknowledges the value of 
differing views and ways of 
doing things. 

•  Displays a positive attitude, 
and where necessary seeks 
clarification, when faced with 
ambiguity and change.  

•  Demonstrates willingness to 

try new approaches.  

•  Adjusts work working style to 

fit different situations.  

•  Acknowledges the value of 

others’ contributions 
regardless of how they are 
presented 

style, method and/or 
behaviour to meet the needs 
of new or different situations 
and performs effectively 
under changing or unclear 
conditions. 

•  Flexibly applies policies, 

procedures and/or rules while 
remaining guided by the 
organisation’s values.  

•  Seeks guidance in adapting 
behaviour to the needs of a 
new or different situation. 

•  Acquires and applies new 
knowledge and learning to 
address new challenges. 

•  Quickly sorts through the 

impact of changes on one’s 
own job duties and work 
processes.  

initiatives that challenge the 
status quo and traditional 
ways of operating across a 
wide variety of topics, issues 
or situations. 

circumstances demand it. 

•  Recognizes and responds 

quickly to shifting 
opportunities and risks. 

•  Anticipates change and 

•  Stays abreast of emerging 

adapts own plans, styles and 
priorities accordingly. 

•  Adapts interpersonal 

approach, style method 
and/or behaviours to diverse 
individuals and groups in a 
range of situations. 

• 

Identifies and make changes 
to improve efficiency and 
quality of service of own area 
via input to procedures and 
processes.  

•  Balances current work 
priorities with change 
priorities. 

developments and trends in 
own area to identify possible 
changes needed to plans or 
goals.  

•  Pursues challenging 
experiences beyond 
customary role or area of 
expertise to add value in 
current area.  

•  Manages specific change 

products 

• 

Involves and motivates others 
in finding improved ways of 
working. 

•  Publicly supports and adapts 
to major changes that show 
promise of improving 

continuous change, ambiguity 
and, at times, apparent 
chaos. 

•  Shifts readily between dealing 
with macro-strategic issues 
and critical details.  

•  Anticipates and capitalizes on 
emerging opportunities and 
risks.  

•  Undertakes developmental 
opportunities to meet future 
organizational needs.  

•  Leads change projects that 
have an important strategic 
impact on the organisation 
and effectively plans for and 
manages their 
implementations.  

•  Creates and environment 

when change is “the norm” 
and ways of work are 
consistently challenged 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 

• 

Is aware of organisation’s 
overall objectives when 
implementing new processes. 

established ways of 
operating. 

Implements agreed change 
initiatives 

•  Seeks opportunities for 

change in order to achieve 
improvement in work, 
processes, systems, etc… 

•  Acts as a role model for 

change by demonstrating a 
commitment to the change 
process and communicates a 
clear and compelling vision of 
what the change will 
accomplish. 

•  Maintains composure and 

•  Collaborates with key 

shows control in the face of 
challenges and change 

stakeholders to promote 
major change initiatives. 

•  Supports other during change 

Negative Indicators 

•  Continues to work in the same way regardless of change in customer requirements 

•  May understand the requirements of a situation but has difficulty modifying 

or organisational norms 

•  Adjusts ineffectively to different situations; conveys a rigid demeanour when under 

stress or pressure 

behaviour to meet the needs of more stressful or complex situations 

•  Resists change and clings to status quo  
•  Talks about commitment to change initiatives but does not demonstrate it in 

•  Becomes overwhelmed when faced with situations or issues involving ambiguity 

behaviour.  

and/or setbacks. 

•  Does not adopt approach to delivering results when circumstances change 

•  Responds slowly to changing priorities  
•  Resists change and often openly discusses unwillingness to adopt new practices 

even in the face of compelling evidence for a new course of action 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Communication 

Uses language as a tool to share and collect information, to exchange ideas and to openly explore differing perspectives adjusting style and content to each unique individual, 
audience and circumstance. Listening to others and communicating in an effective manner that fosters open communication. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Listens and clearly presents 
information  

Fosters two-way communication   Adapts communication to others  

Communicates complex 
messages  

Communicates strategically  

•  Makes self available and 

•  Elicits comments and/or 

clearly encourages others to 
initiate communication. 

feedback on communication 
and information provided. 

•  Listens actively and 
objectively without 
interrupting.  

•  Presents appropriate 

information in a logical, clear 
and concise manner, both 
orally and in writing, using 
appropriate phrasing and 
vocabulary.  

•  Communicates with others 
honestly, respectfully, and 
sensitively.  

•  Writes brief, factual material 
(e.g., notes, e-mail, standard 
letters) in a clear, logical 
manner, using correct 
grammar, spelling and 
punctuation. 

•  Checks own understanding of 
others’ communication (e.g., 
repeats or paraphrases, asks 
additional questions).  

•  Communicates decisions or 
recommendations that could 
be perceived negatively, with 
sensitivity and tact.  

•  Considers others' main points 
and takes them into account 
in own communication. 

•  Maintains continuous open 

•  Adapts content, style, tone 

and consistent 
communication with others. 

•  Openly and constructively 

discusses diverse 
perspectives that could lead 
to misunderstandings. 

•  Supports messages with 

relevant data, information, 
examples and 
demonstrations.  

•  Writes longer, straightforward 
documents (e.g., summaries 
of meetings, instructions) that 
are comprehensive, yet 
concise, combining 

and medium of 
communication to suit the 
target audience’s language, 
cultural background and level 
of understanding. 

•  Takes others’ perspectives 

into account when 
communicating, negotiating 
or presenting arguments 
(e.g., presents benefits from 
all perspectives).  

•  Responds to and discusses 
issues/questions in an 
understandable manner 
without being defensive and 

•  Handles complex on-the-spot 

questions. 

•  Communicates complex 

issues clearly and credibly 
with widely varied audiences.  

•  Uses varied communication 
vehicles and opportunities to 
promote dialogue and 
develop shared 
understanding and 
consensus. 

•  Delivers difficult or unpopular 
messages with clarity, tact 
and diplomacy.  

•  Writes on complex and highly 
specialized issues (e.g., 
complex policy, scientific or 
legal documents), 
transforming technical 
information for non-specialist 
audiences as needed. 

•  Overcomes resistance and 
secures support for ideas or 
initiatives through high-impact 
communication. 

•  Communicates strategically 

to achieve specific objectives 
(e.g., considering such 
aspects as the optimal 
message to present, timing 
and forum of communication).  

• 

Identifies and interprets 
policies and procedures for 
superiors, subordinates and 
peers.  

•  Acknowledges success and 
the need for improvement  

•  Writes strategically from a 

broad, corporate perspective, 
clearly and accurately 
presenting a position, while 
demonstrating an 
understanding of the needs 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
information from a few 
sources as needed. 

while maintaining the dignity 
of others.  

and sensitivities of varied 
audiences. 

•  Anticipates reactions to 
messages and adapts 
communications accordingly.  

•  Writes documents that 

provide in-depth information 
on specific issues, combining 
information, as needed, from 
multiple sources, and 
conveying critical nuances to 
facilitate understanding. 

Negative Indicators 

•  Does not listen to views of others 
•  Gives information either inaccurately and/or at the wrong time 
•  Presents information in a muddled, unclear or jargonised way 
• 

Is negative, rude or interrupts 

•  Does not attempt to get people on board with an idea 
•  Uses the same approach whatever the situation 
•  Does not compromise 
•  Gives in too easily 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Customer Service 

Works with customers to assess needs, provide assistance, resolve problems and satisfy expectations; knows products and services. Demonstrates strong commitment to 
meeting and exceeding the needs of internal and external customers, striving to ensure their full satisfaction. Is committed to providing quality products and services.  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Responds to customer requests 

Builds positive customer 
relations 

Anticipates, and adapts to, 
customer needs 

Foster a customer service 
culture 

Considers the strategic direction 
of customer service 

•  Provides helpful information 
and/or assistance, which is 
consistent with relevant 
guidelines, policies and 
procedures 

• 

Identifies customer needs 
and expectations 

•  Presents a positive image to 

the customer 

•  Responds to requests 

efficiently and effectively  

•  Refers complex questions to 

appropriate 
departments/person 

•  Meets customer needs in a 
respective, responsive 
manner. 

•  Seeks feedback to develop a 

• 

Initiates calls to customers 
and obtains additional 
information to ensure that the 
requested work is not delayed 

•  Maintains on-going 
communication with 
customers 

•  Contacts customers to follow 
up on products, services or 
solutions to ensure their 
needs have been directly and 
effectively met 

•  Understands issues from the 
customer’s perspective 

•  Keeps customers up-to-date 

with information and 
decisions that affect them. 

•  Shows concern for and 

commitment to the customer 

•  Works to resolve customer 

service problems 

•  Seeks customer feedback to 
investigate ways to improve 
customer experience  

•  Regularly and systematically 

contacts customers or 
perspective customers to 
determine their needs 

•  Works with customers to 

adapt products, services or 
solutions to meet their needs. 

•  Anticipates areas where 

support or influence will be 
required and discusses 
situation/concerns with 
appropriate individuals 

•  Proposes new, creative and 

sound alternatives to improve 
the customer service 

•  Tracks trends and 

•  Communicates the 

developments that will affect 
organisation’s ability to meet 
current and future customer 
needs. 

organisation’s mission, vision 
and values to external 
customers. 

• 

Identifies benefits for 
customers; looks for ways to 
add value 

systematically evaluates new 
opportunities to develop 
customer relationships 

•  Strategically and 

•  Creates an environment in 
which concern for customer 
satisfaction is a key priority 

•  Links comprehensive and in-
depth understanding of 
customers’ long-term needs 
and strategies with current 
and proposed 
projects/initiatives. 

•  Uses experience and 
knowledge to provide 
additional, value-added 
service for the customer. 

•  Seeks out and involves 

customers or prospective 
customers in assessing 
products, services or 
solutions to identify ways to 
improve. 

•  Establishes service standards 
and develops strategies to 
ensure staff meet them. 

clear understanding of 
customer needs. 

•  Consistently makes decisions 
focused on customer needs 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Negative Indicators 

•  Does not treat all customers with respect 
•  Takes a narrow view of customer service focusing only on own area of knowledge, 

does not consider that the customer’s needs might be broader. 

•  Takes a short-term view of customer service, ignoring the long-term needs of 

customers. 

•  Does not take the time to find out the customer needs instead makes assumptions 

about them 

Ignores customer feedback 

•  Makes promises to customers that cannot be delivered (sets false expectations) 
•  Does not prioritise customer needs  
• 
•  Takes negative feedback personally 
• 
• 

Is not flexible about own way of doing things 
Is insensitive to customer concerns and carries out tasks without thought of impact 
on customer 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Innovation and Creative Thinking 

Ability to develop new insights into situations and apply innovative solutions to make improvements; ability to create a work environment that encourages creative thinking and 
innovation in the design of solutions and processes; ability and willingness to question conventional approaches, exploring alternatives and responding to challenges with 
innovative solutions or services, using intuition, experimentation and fresh perspectives.  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Acknowledges the need for new 
approaches.  Has the ability to 
think creatively and implements 
solutions for everyday problems. 

Modifies current approaches and 
has the ability to think creatively 
and strives to continually 
improve own processes and 
areas of business 

Introduces and implements new 
approaches and progressive 
solutions/processes 

Identifies and creates new 
concepts and designs.  
Develops innovative solutions 
and processes 

•  Questions and challenges 

the conventional approach to 
doing things  

•  Analyses strengths and 
weaknesses of current 
approaches 

•  Seeks alternative resolutions 
for problems or suggests 
improvements to current 
approaches 

•  Modifies and adapts current 
methods and approaches to 
better meet needs and 
situations 

•  Keeps up-to-date with 

developments in own field 
and uses this information to 
introduce and promote best 
practices. 

•  Encourages and helps others 

to generate ideas 

•  Recognizes when a new 
approach is needed 

•  Has the ability to think 

creatively and use initiative 

• 

• 

•  Voluntarily puts forward 

suggestions for improvement 

Identifies alternative solutions 
based on precedents 

•  Uses existing approaches or 
solutions in innovative ways 
to solve problems 

Identifies an optimal solution 
after weighing the 
advantages and 
disadvantages of alternative 
approaches 

•  Sees long-term 

consequences of potential 
solutions 

•  Makes significant changes 
and amendments to, or 
incorporates aspects from 
various external solutions to 
approach to arrive at an 
appropriate solution to meet 
work objectives and /or 
improve results 

• 

Integrates and combines 
relevant concepts into a new 
solution for which there is no 
experience  

•  Creates new methods or 

solutions for the organisation 
from scratch 

•  Promotes improvement ideas 
to more senior colleagues in 
own work unit 

•  Recognises that small 

changes can have a large 
impact 

•  Consistently considers and 
thinks about a process, 
approach or tool with the view 
to improvement 

•  Fosters a safe environment 
where educated risks are 
supported  

Identifies gaps against best 
practices, puts forward 
proposals and develops strategic 
implementation plans to 
introduce new and improved 
ways of operating.  Nurtures 
creativity.  

•  Encourages others to think 

out of the box 

•  Encourages and values new 

ideas, perceptions and 
suggestions 

•  Develops and encourages an 
environment that nurtures 
creative thinking, questioning 
and experimentation 

•  Encourages challenges to 
conventional approaches 

•  Sponsors experimentation to 

maximize potential for 
innovation 

•  Develops clear action plans 

to close gaps 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Works with others to identify 

new opportunities and 
implements and shares ideas 
within work unit 

•  Recommends or implements 
existing processes, solutions 
or tools with little or no 
modification, to complete 
work objectives or resolve 
problems 

•  Able to import solutions from 
outside the current work 
environment  

•  Able to modify a solution from 
outside the current work 
environment 

• 

 Reviews best practices (by 
researching and evaluating 
them) and what others in the 
industry and/or work area are 
doing and seeks to influence 
improvements within scope of 
own work/area 

• 

Identifies flexible and 
adaptable solutions while still 
recognising professional and 
organisation standards  

•  Obtains and provides 
resources to enable 
implementation of new ideas 
or initiatives where 
appropriate  

•  Formulate innovative 
solutions or resolves 
problems by developing new 
concepts or approaches to 
meet work objectives 

• 

Integrate relevant concepts 
into complete solutions in 
response to a new challenge 
for which there is no previous 
experience 

•  Shows rigidity in approach to work 
•  Adheres to conventional methods of work 
•  Does not take into account interdependencies between issues and processes in 

relevant functional area or across functional areas 

•  Blocks new ideas by not being receptive, sharing information and/or exploring 

opportunities 

•  Fails to generate and implement new and creative approaches 
•  Avoids taking educated or “smart” risks 
•  Accepts the status quo 
•  Creates, recommends, adopts or implements approaches and solutions without 
weighing the potential consequences or how they fit within the circumstances of 
the work group or organisation 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Job Knowledge 

Demonstrates knowledge of skills, tools, systems, procedures and techniques necessary to provide the appropriate quality and quantity of work in a timely and efficient 
manner.  Applies knowledge to identify issues and internal problems; works to develop additional technical knowledge and skills.  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Demonstrates broad knowledge 
of one job area or basic 
knowledge of several related job 
areas 

•  Applies acquired job skills, 
policies, and procedures to 
complete substantive 
assignments/projects/tasks of 
moderate scope and 
complexity 

•  Exercises judgment within 
defined guidelines and 
practices to determine 
appropriate action 

Demonstrates basic knowledge 
of skills, policies, and 
procedures for own job 

•  Demonstrates basic 

knowledge of subject matter 
and where it fits into the 
business of STS 

•  Follows basic work routines 

and standards 

•  Applies basic knowledge of 
systems and procedures for 
own job/position 

•  Understands job 
requirements and 
responsibilities. 

•  Uses professional concepts 

to resolve problems of limited 
scope and complexity 

•  Work on assignments that are 

initially routine in nature 

Demonstrates solid working 
knowledge of job skills, policies, 
and procedures  

Demonstrates in-depth 
knowledge of complex job skills, 
policies, and procedures  

Demonstrate expert knowledge 
in highly specialized skills, 
policies, and procedures  

•  Applies theory and puts it into 

practice with in-depth 
understanding of job field  

•  Selects, combines or comes 
up with appropriate tools or 
technology for the tasks 

•  Consistently shares expertise 
with others, teaching skills 
and explaining concepts. 

• 

Independently performs the 
full range of responsibilities 
within the function 

• 

Improves or redesigns 
processes, tools or 
technologies. 

•  Analyses problems/issues of 

•  Seeks, learns and applies 

diverse scope and 
determines solutions 

•  Applies knowledge to 

common situations that 
present limited problems but 
requires guidance to deal with 
more complex situations. 

•  Keeps informed on up-to-date 

job methods, skills, and 
techniques 

•  Able to choose and utilize 

appropriate tools or 
technologies to perform tasks 

•  Has the capability and 

knowledge base to share 
skills with others 

•  Provides opportunities for 
others to learn skills and 
concepts 

•  Actively applies knowledge 
correctly in non-standard 
situations using a thorough 
understanding of the work 
processes, principals or 

new job related training and 
knowledge and disseminates 
to co-workers. 

•  Only rarely needs supervisor 
assistance; often called upon 
to provide input to new 
processes or practices; 
makes effective 
recommendations. 

•  Exhibits a high degree of 

knowledge in own overall field 
and recognized expertise in 
specific areas 

•  Has significant impact and 
influence on organisation 
policy and program 
development. 

•  Considered an expert, 

actively shares knowledge 
and uses it to design and 
propose processes, principals 
or practices. 

•  Provides consultation on non-

standard matters. 

•  Regularly leads projects of 
critical importance and that 
carry substantial 
consequences of success or 
failure 

•  May direct programs with 

organisation-wide impact that 
include formulating strategies 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Possess sufficient skills to 
perform job effectively and 
efficiently  

practices to assure high 
quality outcomes or results. 

•  Able to analyse unique 

issues/problems without 
precedent and/or structure 

and administering policies, 
processes, and resources 

•  Consistently creates accurate 
work and meets or exceeds 
deadlines.  

•  Can work in most situations 

generating correct choices or 
applying appropriate 
processes, principles or 
practices without reference to 
supervisor or needing 
supervisory intervention.   

•  Defines resources and 

actions to achieve objectives 
within constraints 

Negative Indicators 

•  Able to manage programs 
that include formulating 
strategies and administering 
policies, processes, and 
resources 

•  Functions with a high degree 

of autonomy 

•  Performance errors traceable to lack of knowledge 
•  Work output contains frequent or significant errors 
•  Doesn’t follow current practices or processes and is unable to enhance job 

knowledge through training and/or experience 

•  Poor judgment or decision making as a result of poor knowledge 

•  Requires active involvement of supervisor and frequent coaching to perform the job 
•  Uninterested in self-development  
• 
Incorrectly applies knowledge 
•  Stuck in past skills, policies, processes and/or technologies 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Negotiating And Influencing 

The capacity to persuade, convince and influence others for the purpose of achieving desired results; the ability to effectively represent one’s position on issues to gain support 
and buy-in from others;  ability to generate multiple alternatives to a problem to meet the needs of other stakeholders; able to work to achieve win-win outcomes that others can 
accept and able to appropriately utilize settlement strategies such as compromise 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Uses basic persuasion and 
negotiation techniques in 
informal discussions or 
presentations  

Uses targeted persuasion and 
negotiation techniques in 
informal and/or formal meetings 
to achieve desired results 

•  Able to describe correctly 

the object of the negotiation 

•  Able to identify or create a 
personal negotiation style 

•  Takes a single action to 
persuade using a single 
resource (e.g. examples, 
data, visual aids) to support 
own argument/position 

•  Uses concrete examples to 
demonstrate and/or make a 
point 

•  Provides credible 

information to establish 
rapport 

•  Able to analyse own 

•  Determines minimal or ideal 
conditions of the other party 
during negotiations.  

•  Keeps arguments issue-

oriented 

•  Adapts arguments to appeal 

to the needs or interests of 
others 

•  Studies the motivation of 
opposing party during 
negotiations 

interests and objectives in 
the negotiation 

•  Uses the process of give-
and-take to gain support 

•  Able to respect the rules of 
efficient communication  

•  Able to analyse on what 

measure or aspect the 
object can be negotiated  

Facilitate communication 
between two or more groups 
adapting the presentation or 
discussion to appeal to the 
interest level of others. 

Initiates and facilitates 
communication between multiple 
stakeholder groups when buy-in 
is necessary to achieve results 
and improve coordination and 
processes 

Assembles key stakeholders 
from inside and outside the 
organisation and strategically 
utilises existing networks to align 
and gain support for own agenda 
to impact outcomes 

•  Develops a strategy for giving 
on some points and standing 
firm on others to achieve 
desired outcomes.  

•  Offers compromises and 
trade-offs to others, as 
necessary, in exchange for 
cooperation. 

•  Able to anticipate the 

•  Able to propose clear 

expectations and interests of 
the opposing party 

conditions for the proposed 
solution  

•  Able to anticipate the effect of 
an action and/or information 
on others and skilfully 
redirects discussion to 
achieve desired results 

•  Builds on past successes 
internally and externally to 
gain acceptance 

•  Employs cost-benefit 

analyses to emphasize the 
value of an idea 

•  Able to anticipate the 

interests and objectives of the 
partner 

•  Take multiple actions to 

influence, with each action 
adapted to the specific 
audience  

• 

Identifies and targets efforts 
to influence the real decision 
makers and those who can 
influence them 

• 

Identifies and offers trade-offs 
or exchanges to gain 
commitment 

•  Structures situations (e.g. 
setting, persons present, 
sequence of events) to create 
desired impact and to 
maximise the chances of a 
favourable outcome 

•  Accommodates stakeholders 
to the extent possible without 
undermining other involved 
parties 

•  Uses experts or third parties 

testimony to influence 

•  Conveys position well even 

when faced with an engaged 
audience with a high degree 
of opposition 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Able to use positive and 
respectful messages 

•  Responds to opposing views 
in a non-defensive manner.  

•  Able to analyse and 
organise information 
received from opposing 
party 

•  Able to analyse advantages 
and disadvantages for each 
party or side 

•  Able to adjust personal style 
to that of the opposing side  
and to the particularities of 
the object of the negotiation  

•  Effectively articulate his/her 
position and helps others 
understand the underlying 
issues and concerns 

•  Able to identify what points 
or aspects that can’t be lost 
under any circumstance and 
what points or aspects are 
ready to be lost 

•  Able to define clear 

arguments for sustaining 
own position 

•  Considers the needs and 

perspectives of others and 
avoids applying pressure so 
that win-win situations can 
be realised whenever 
possible 

•  Chooses the appropriate 
approach and time to 
influence others 

•  Develops and uses subtle 

strategies to persuade others 
particularly in sensitive or 
high pressure situations 

• 

Influences others without 
using direct authority (e.g. 
uses different examples to 
demonstrate a point to 
different stakeholders) 

•  Helps the other side see the 

potential in alternative 
solutions to ensure they 
understand the full impact of 
their decisions 

•  Generates support for ideas 

of controversy and 
importance  

•  Recognises when a win-win 
outcomes is not possible and 
appropriately applies 
settlements strategies to 
achieve desired goal 

•  Has difficulty conveying own position to others particularly when faced with 

•  Uses inappropriate words or actions given the sensitivity of the issue/problem or 

opposition 

•  Convinces others of own position when an issue is of minimal importance 
•  Unable or slow to get input and develop action plans and approaches that reflect 

relevant insights 

•  Fails to realise when win-win outcomes are not possible 

the reaction of the other party 

•  Pushes others to accept his/her terms without regards to their needs or 

perspectives 
Inappropriately applies different settlement strategies such as compromise 

• 
•  Sees a situation in isolation and ignores solutions that are not immediately obvious 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Planning and Organising 

Organises own time effectively, creates own work schedules, prioritises workload, prepares in advance and sets realistic timescales. Monitors progress towards operational or 
strategic objectives. Makes sure all resources are used efficiently and effectively. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Plans and prioritises own work, 
with reference to line Managers. 
Makes best use of own time and 
meets deadlines. 

Plans activities thoroughly for 
self / others.  
Makes best use of all available 
resources. 

Contributes to the development 
of operational plans, ensures 
plans are fully implemented and 
monitors progress to operational 
objectives.  
Seeks to improve how resources 
are used. 

Contributes to the development 
of business planning. 
Manages operational plans 
using a project management 
approach. 
Monitors progress and ensures 
that corrective action is taken to 
meet targets. 

•  Effectively prioritises, is able 
to organise work to meet 
designated deadlines. 

•  Ensures others are clear on 
activity, work load and 
priorities. 

•  Prioritises workload to ensure 
everything is completed to the 
agreed standard, monitors 
progress. 

• 

•  When competing priorities 

exist, will seek direction from 
more senior colleague. 

•  Carries out activities in an 
orderly and well-structured 
manner and pays attention to 
detail. 

• 

Informs people if things get 
delayed, informs team and 
others of progress. 

•  Plans and organises to cater 
for peaks and troughs in 
workloads 

•  Assesses and reassesses 
priorities as required - 
Effectively resolves 
competing priorities. 

•  Provides effective support to 
others to enable delivery. 

•  Monitors / income and 

expenditure.  

•  Where required to structure 
work of team, ensures 
realistic timescales are set for 
both self and others. 

•  Monitors progress on process 
and resources to ensure 
deadlines are met. 

•  Contributes to the planning 

process of own area. 

•  Effectively plans and co-
ordinates small projects. 

•  Establishes effective 

measures of progress against 
agreed expectations. 

Identifies critical tasks and 
objectives, and obtains or 
organises necessary 
resources and support to 
achieve operational 
objectives. 

•  Negotiates the prioritisation of 
work targets and resources, 
and monitors effectiveness. 

•  Works with team / others to 
develop plans for area going 
forward, both short term and 
long term (where 
appropriate). 

•  Analyses and reviews 

Responsibility for the 
development of a business plan 
for own area, which contributes 
to the STS strategic plan. 
Secures and makes best use of 
resources to manage varying 
demands. Responsibility for the 
design and planning of key 
projects. 
Is focused on value for money. 

•  Plans, organises and 

manages activities to make 
sure budget resources are 
used efficiently and effectively 
to achieve organisation and 
work group goals (where 
appropriate). 

•  Manages the implementation 
of area plans and ensure that 
corrective action is taken to 
meet targets. 

•  Reports on progress of key 

activity within 
area/department to line 
manager.  

performance as appropriate 

•  Provides clear direction and 

makes sure that 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Looks for and suggests ways 
to improve current working 
practices. 

•  Use a "to do" list, task plan, 

or similar planning devices to 
note action plans, deadlines, 
etc. 

staff/colleagues know what is 
expected of them. 

•  Sets goals and targets 

beyond those required and 
continuously strives to 
achieve them. 

•  Leaves problems until they become significant issues 
•  Struggles to effectively prioritise work load or meet deadlines 
•  Sets unrealistic deadlines 
•  Relies on fire fighting 
• 

Is unreliable  

•  Uses time inefficiently  
•  Does not track activities to monitor what has been completed and what needs to be 

done.  

•  Does not keep records of activities related to stated objectives.  
• 

Is unaware of status of own work at all times. 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Problem Solving and Decision Making 

Ability to analyse situations, diagnose problems, identify the key issues, establish and evaluate alternative courses of action and produce a logical, practical and acceptable 
solutions.    

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Gathers relevant information. 
Solves problems, makes 
decisions independently within 
own area of responsibility, or in 
conjunction with other team 
members or more senior staff. 

Resolves both problems that 
occur on a regular basis and 
more complex infrequent 
problems.  Uses judgment to 
assess exceptions. 

•  Takes in information quickly 
and accurately to understand 
issues. 

•  Breaks a relatively complex 

problem down into 
component parts. 

•  Knows what decisions they 
can make in their job and 
makes them 

•  Breaks problems down into 

smaller parts. 

•  Shows patience and 

determination in resolving a 
problem. 

•  Uses common sense and 
refers to existing practices 
and procedures when 
analysing a problem.  

•  Gathers the relevant 
information and facts. 

•  Solves problems by a 

process of analysis, looking 
at root causes, weighing up 
the pros and cons of different 
approaches. 

•  Finds the balance between 
the need for being thorough 
(i.e. having sufficient 
information) with the 
requirement to make a timely 
decision. 

•  Uses information from a 

variety of sources including 

Recognises patterns, and 
connections.  Looks at a 
complex problem from many 
angles. Exercises good 
judgment, makes well informed 
decisions in a timely manner; 
consults with others as 
appropriate before implementing 
decisions. 

Analyses, assesses, resolves / 
makes recommendations on 
complex problems. 

Proactively solves problems to 
affect change, makes informed 
decisions. Takes responsibility 
and is accountable. 

•  Considers the operational 
impacts of decisions on 
company division 
/departments /team, 
stakeholders and others. 

•  Fully scopes out problems, 
taking into consideration 
impact within own 
area/department and across 
the company. 

• 

Identifies the specific 
information required to clarify 
a situation or to make a 
decision. 

•  Resolves problems where 

there is a range of 
information, or diverse, partial 
and conflicting data. 

•  Gets more complete and 

accurate information until root 
cause has been understood - 
sees implications and 
consequences. 

•  Looks ahead and considers 
external developments, 
identifying trends and 
emerging patterns when 
making important decisions. 

•  Generates alternative 

solutions by collaborating with 
people who are impacted by, 
or have knowledge of, the 
problem, issue or challenge.  

•  Equips people to make 
decisions. Ensures that 
individuals working in own 
area have sufficient 

Analyses situations at both a 
strategic and operational level.  
Identifies the key issues, and 
solutions 
Acts decisively with sound 
judgment. 

•  Considers both short- and 
long-term impacts of 
decisions on the company.  

•  Demonstrates leadership and 
courage in making tough or 
unpopular decisions. 

•  Works collaboratively and 

tests ideas with a wide range 
of people internally and 
externally.  

•  Makes decisions through 

weighing up the cost-benefit 
and risk implications.  
Provides specialist / 
authoritative advice to others 
as required to enable them to 
make decisions. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
own networks to solve 
problems. 

• 

•  Evaluates and makes 
decisions in relation to 
procedures, precedents, 
policies and standards in own 
area of responsibility.   

information and guidance to 
make effective decisions. 

•  Makes informed decisions; 
considering  potential 
implications 

•  Consults collaboratively 
across company when 
developing a solution where 
appropriate.  

• 

Is able to balance the need 
for decisiveness and caution. 

•  Overlooks risks in decision making 
•  Misses the key issues as “stuck” in the detail 
•  Not a disciplined problem solver; may be stuck in the past and what worked before 
•  Has to come back and rework the problem a second time on many occasions  
•  Unlikely to come up with the second and better solution, ask penetrating questions, 

or see hidden patterns 

•  Jumps to conclusions based on prejudices, historical solutions or narrow 

perspective 

•  Goes first with quick solutions, conclusions and statements before analysis 
•  Unable to distinguish relevant from irrelevant information 
•  Makes decisions based on irrelevant information 
• 

Is slow and inefficient in making decision 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Teamwork 

Working collaboratively with others to achieve common goals and positive results. Readily shares information, knowledge and personal strengths, seeks to understand and 
build on differing perspectives of others to enhance team efficiency and quality outcomes. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Participate as a team member 

Foster teamwork 

Demonstrate leadership in 
teams 

Capitalizes on teamwork 
opportunities  

Builds bridges between teams 

•  Assumes personal 

•  Assumes responsibility for 

responsibility and follows up 
to meet commitments to 
others.  

work activities and 
coordinating efforts.  

•  Builds relationships with 
team members and with 
other work units. 

• 

Initiates collaboration with 
other groups/ organizations 
on projects or methods of 
operating. 

•  Facilitates collaboration 

across the organization and 
with other organizations to 
achieve a common goal. 

•  Promotes team goals.  

•  Fosters team spirit and 

•  Understands the goals of the 

team and each team 
member’s role within it.  

•  Deals honestly and fairly with 

others, showing 
consideration and respect.  

•  Willingly gives support to co-

workers and works 
collaboratively rather than 
competitively.  

•  Shares experiences, 
knowledge and best 
practices with team 
members. 

•  Seeks others’ input and 

involvement and listens to 
their viewpoints.  

•  Shifts priorities, changes 

style and responds with new 
approaches as needed to 
meet team goals. 

•  Suggests or develops 

methods and means for 
maximizing the input and 
involvement of team 
members. 

•  Acknowledges the work of 

others. 

collaboration within teams 

•  Discusses problems/ issues 
with team members that 
could affect results. 

•  Communicates expectations 

for teamwork and 
collaboration. 

•  Facilitates the expression of 
diverse points of view to 
enhance teamwork. 

•  Capitalizes on the strengths 

of all members. 

•  Gives credit for success and 
acknowledges contributions 
and efforts of individuals to 
team effectiveness. 

•  Capitalizes on opportunities 
and addresses challenges 
presented by the diversity of 
team talents. 

•  Supports and encourages 
other team members to 
achieve objectives. 

• 

• 

•  Encourages others to share 
experience, knowledge and 
best practices with the team. 

•  Encourages the team to 

openly discuss what can be 
done to create a solution or 
alternative. 

 Builds strong teams that 
capitalize on differences in 
expertise, competencies and 
background. 

 Breaks down barriers 
(structural, functional, 
cultural) between teams, 
facilitating the sharing of 
expertise and resources. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Sees them self as better than others and fails to respect their contribution 
•  Co-operates selectively in accordance with own personal interests or objectives 
• 
•  Passes the responsibility to others 

Is of the attitude “That’s not my job” or “I’m far too busy” 

•  Does the bare minimum to get by 
•  Fails to take on board new methods of delivering the service to accommodate 

different teams, cultures and communities 

•  Makes negative comments about another either professionally or personally 
•  Can’t help, won’t help, uncooperative 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leading and Developing People 

Ability to lead, encourage, inspire and support others to deliver.  Has the ability to understand how individuals, at all levels, operate and how best to use that understanding to 
achieve objectives in the most efficient and effective way and to realise their full potential. Ability to plan strategically and follow up plan with clear course of action.. 
Level 5  

Level 2 

Level 1 

Level 4 

Level 3 

Sets a good example.  Motivates 
and encourages others by 
setting an example of a positive 
and energetic approach. 

Gives direction and instruction.  
Keeps people informed and gets 
the best out of them through 
enthusiasm and recognition. 

Leads by example and sets 
standards for self and others. 

• 

 Leads by example 

•  Sets and communicates clear 

•  Willingly takes the lead when 
required to get things done 

•  Treats people fairly and 

consistently 

•  Generates a team spirit 

•  Demonstrates 

professionalism when 
representing own area or 
body of work 

•  Responds positively to 

challenges 

•  Builds credibility by being 
trustworthy and reliable 

•  Values and seeks out diverse 
inputs to decision making 

direction 

•  Trusts others to deliver work 
once delegated appropriately 

•  Ensures feedback is 

objective, constructive and 
timely. 

•  Uses mistakes as a means to 
coach and develop others 

•  Assigns and co-ordinates 

work as required 

•  Ensures that work not 
meeting standards is 
addressed 

•  Encourages development 

within the team/unit 

•  Establishes acceptable levels 
of quality and quantity of 
work; reviews, recognises 
and supports achievements 

•  Gives others the chance to 
practice new skills and 
capabilities and provides 
support 

•  Addresses issues of 

performance and quality 
standards across work unit 

•  Gives constructive and 
objective feedback  

•  Understands in depth what 
motivates and encourages 
team members and 
colleagues 

•  Effectively deals with 
problems and issues 

Leads by example at individual, 
team and peer level. 
Demonstrates suitable people 
management styles in order to 
motivate and manage people 
effectively. 

Communicates the vision.  Sets 
strategic direction for own part of 
the business ensuring buy in to 
the decision-making process and 
commitment to decisions made. 

•  Sets challenging standards 

•  Sets clear goals and 

•  Encourages and develops 
personal accountability in 
others 

•  Clearly communicates 

expectations and consistently 
monitors outcomes 

•  Encourages and seeks out 

feedback and makes positive 
improvements regardless of 
how the feedback was given 

•  Develops staff through 
coaching, mentoring, 
guidance and support 

•  Recognises potential in 

others and encourages them 
to develop themselves 

standards, ensures shared 
ownership of these within 
team (where appropriate). 

•  Monitors progress of 

objective achievement 
against goals/targets. 

•  Pro-actively communicates 

across the organisation levels 
and functions the importance 
of short and long term goals 
and objectives.   

•  Key Performance Indicators 
(KPI’s) are established and 
used to meet the 
Organisation’s goals and 
targets. 

•  Ensures individual 

contributions are maximised. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Secures necessary resources 

•  Coaches and mentors others 

and support 

to demonstrate their 
capabilities 

• 

In areas of influence, acts as 
a positive role model for team 
members 

•  Raises conflicts and barriers 
to the appropriate level 

•  Learns from mistakes and 
acknowledges the need for 
new skills and knowledge 

•  Deals with stressful situations 

in a positive manner 

•  Solicits feedback from others 
to enhance knowledge and 
skills 

•  Provides supportive 

environment and removes 
blocks to effective working to 
ensure well being 

•  Recognises those individuals 
who need reassurance and 
supports and encourages 
them 

• 

Is comfortable with delegating 
autonomy and provides 
support and empowers 
employees to make decisions 

•  Vigorously pursues resources 
necessary to implement team 
plans and raises major issues 
or barriers to the appropriate 
level 

•  Deals with stressful situations 
in a positive manner and 
defuses tension when 
appropriate or enables others 
to focus on key issues 

•  Aware of change 

management concepts 
including both the 
organisational and personal 
transition process 

•  Uses delegation as a means 
to developing skills of others 

•  Nurtures strong team identity 

and pride 

•  Encourages and facilitates 
calculated risk taking 

•  Provides an appropriate 
environment to give and 
receive feedback while 
ensuring feedback is 
constructive, objective and 
timely 

•  Recognises and celebrates 
others' contributions and 
achievements. 

•  Works to provide a supportive 
environment by managing 
resources and removing 
blocks to effective working.   

•  Communicates and gains 

team commitment to a vision 
of what is to be achieved 

•  Happy to recognise 

individuals with skills that 
surpass their own and utilise 
them to achieve a better 
outcome 

•  Translates strategic direction 

•  Counsels others through 

to make it relevant to 
individuals 

difficult issues or new territory 

•  Values and seeks out diverse 
inputs to decision making 

•  Vigorously pursues resources 
necessary to implement team 
plans and raises major issues 
or barriers to the appropriate 
level 

•  Prepares people plans as 

part of the business planning 
cycle 

•  Ensures resource availability 
and removes blockages and 
conflicts for teams 

•  Garners excitement, 

enthusiasm and commitment 
from others to vision 

•  Communicates the need for 

•  Ensures that people 

change and fosters 
employees to embrace 
change 

development systems are in 
place and aligned with 
strategic goals. 

•  Champions the development 
of and capabilities in the 
business unit 

•  Able to identify potential 

successors  

•  Ensures that all potential 

successors have personal 
development plans and is 

•  Comfortable with ambiguity 
and frequent change and 
provides positive support 
during changes 

•  Champions the development 
of capabilities in the whole 
organisation 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
active in developing 
successors 

•  Champions and nurtures 
potential successors 

Is inaccessible to others requiring direction 

•  Does not delegate work 
•  Demonstrates favouritism in the team 
• 
•  Will not develop others in the team, feels threatened 
•  Expects certain behaviour but does not set an example of them 
•  Does not capitalise on and leverage diverse skills offered by the team 

•  Does not use or follow organisation’s systems, procedures and policies 
•  Fails to identify and/or recognise opportunities to delegate  
•  Does not provide staff with resources and support to complete assignments 
•  Fails to recognise staff or their efforts 
•  Tells others what they want to hear  
•  Keeps the best jobs for themselves 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Managing Performance 

Ability to assign work and to establish work rules and acceptable levels of quality and quantity of work.  Ability to review work and evaluate performance of others, and to 
develop individuals’ competencies.  Ability and willingness to support employee efforts in working towards and achieving goals. . Ability to clearly set goals and objectives 
linked to the organisations vision. 
Level 1 

Level 5  

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Understands own work well and 
is able to set team goals and 
evaluate performance against 
targets 

Understand work for larger 
workgroup or department and is 
able to set goals and assess 
performance in line with 
workgroup direction.  Able to 
identify and account for barriers 
and risks 

Has in depth understanding of 
workgroup or department work 
in line with organisation wide 
direction and strategy.  Able to 
set unit objectives and assign to 
individual members.  Able to 
coach and mentor team towards 
achievement of goals. 

Understand work of an entire 
function or line of business and 
is able to contribute to 
development of performance 
measures and targets for unit in 
line with organisation targets 
and goals  

In depth understanding of 
organisation strategy and vision.  
Ability to set and monitor goals 
for entire organisation in one or 
more area in line with 
organisation strategy.  Ability to 
drive performance in own 
business line to meet 
organisation goals and targets.   

•  Treats people fairly and 

consistently 

•  Generates a team spirit 

•  Sets challenging but 
achievable goals  

•  Focuses efforts on highest 

priorities  

•  Gives appropriate recognition 

for success or good 
performance 

•  Creates adequately detailed 
action plans and timelines for 
tasks/goals 

• 

Identifies performance 
measures and evaluation 

•  Outlines goals and assess 
team progress towards 
achievement of goals  

•  Recognises and rewards 

team and individual efforts 
and accomplishments 

•  Works not only on end result 
but also on interim or in-
process performance.  

•  Relates team performance to 
workgroup performance 

• 

Identifies potential barriers to 
achieving results and 
provides recommendations 
for overcoming them 

•  Effectively and fairly 

distributes workload among 

•  Establishes acceptable levels 
of quality and quantity of 
work; reviews, recognises 
and supports achievements 

•  Gives others the chance to 
practice new skills and 
capabilities and provides 
support  

•  Clearly communicates 

expectations and consistently 
monitors outcomes 

•  Addresses issues of 

performance and quality 
standards across work unit 

•  Gives constructive and 
objective feedback 

•  Sets challenging standards 

•  Monitors progress of 

•  Creates and fosters an 

environment of personal 
accountability in the team 

•  Encourages and seeks out 

feedback and makes positive 
improvements regardless of 
how the feedback was given 

organisation-wide objective 
achievement against 
goals/targets. 

•  Pro-actively communicates 
across the organisation 
levels and functions the 
importance of short and long 
term goals and objectives.   

•  Builds consensus and 

commitment for achieving 
goals  

•  Garners excitement, 

enthusiasm and commitment 
from others to vision 

•  Develops and implements 

internal controls to manage 
potential barriers to 
achievement of goals 

•  Sets workgroup goals and 
performance measures 

•  Specifies data to be gathered 
and develops systems for 
collecting and sharing data 
on progress towards 
achieving organisational 
objectives  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
criteria to apply to own 
workgroup/team 

team members to ensure 
goals are met 

•  Clearly explains tasks and 
expectations to team 

•  Monitors performance or 
progress against plan 

•  Defines the characteristics of 
a high-performing team and 
ensures common 
understanding of purpose 
and direction among 
members 

•  Builds commitment in others 
for their individual objectives 

•  Demonstrates a sense of 
urgency about results 

•  Coaches others to monitor 
performance and progress 
and to think through issues  

based on organisation 
mission/vision and strategic 
direction 

• 

Identifies concrete and 
meaningful metrics and 
tracks against them 

•  Communicates and gains 

team commitment to a vision 
of what is to be achieved 

•  Recognises and celebrates 
others' contributions and 
achievements. 

•  Sets clear goals and 

standards, ensures shared 
ownership of these within 
team (where appropriate). 

•  Promotes and maintains a 
high performance climate  

•  Builds a culture of holding 
managers accountable for 
the results of their team 

•  Effectively deals with 
problems and issues 

•  Relates workgroup 
performance to 
organisational performance  

• 

Identifies the potential costs 
and benefits of taking specific 
risks 

•  Accepts responsibility for 
unmet targets/goals 

•  Gives credit and shares 
success with team 

•  Promotes a sense of urgency 

in the team for reaching 
goals and meeting deadlines 

•  Builds commitment in others 

for team objectives 

Negative Indicators 

•  Able to establish Key 

Performance Indicators 
(KPI’s) and use them to meet 
the Organisation’s goals and 
targets. 

•  Creates an overall climate 
that is conducive to high-
performance by establishing 
expectations and reward and 
recognition systems that 
support it 

•  Ensures that performance 

management systems are in 
place and aligned with 
strategic goals. 

•  Manages performance 
towards strategies and 
change through aligning 
objectives, appraisals, 
development activities, 
rewards and compensation 

• 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Does not make expectations clear to others. 
•  Does not conduct annual performance appraisals or provides effective and timely 

feedback throughout the year 

•  Fails to identify and/or constructively manage employee performance problems.   
•  Does not use milestones and deadlines to assess progress. 
• 

Is subjective in the assessment of people/demonstrates favouritism in the team 

Is lax or inconsistent in discussing performance. 

•  Does not plan strategically or commit to a course of action to accomplish goals 
•  Sets unrealistic goals 
• 
•  Does not capitalise on and leverage diverse skills offered by the team 
•  Does not respond to staff's requests for assistance in completing work. 
•  Does not deal with under performance or development issues 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Acumen 

Formulates effective strategies consistent with the business and competitive strategy of the organisation across the region the organisation competes in. Examines policy 
issues and strategic planning with a long-term perspective.  Determines objectives and sets priorities; anticipates potential threats or opportunities. Takes a long-term view and 
acts as a catalyst for organisational change, builds a shared vision with others.  Influences others to translate vision into action.  
Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 3 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Understands and is able to link 
work of own team/work group to 
the goals and objectives of the 
department/team/organisation 

Understand the organisation’s 
culture and goals as they relate 
to own area.  Generates ideas 
which contribute to the 
Department or unit plans.  

Has an in-depth understanding 
of how own division/department 
/team operates and how it links 
to other areas within the 
organisation.  Contributes 
operationally to the development 
of strategy in own area 

Contributes to the development 
of key goals.  Implements 
agreed priorities and 
communicates the vision to 
others 

Develops and manages the 
implementation of plans for work 
own division/area and 
contributes actively to the 
Organisation’s strategy. 

•  Knows what is expected of 

own work group and how this 
contributes to the objectives 
of the department/ team/ 
organisation 

•  Keeps up to date with 

developments in own area 

•  Gets results – demonstrates 

a can do mind set 

•  Seeks to understand 

relevance and value of own 
and other team members’ 
activities to the strategic 
direction and key strategies of 
the organisation 

•  Provides ideas and 

information to relevant people 

•  Understands and keeps up to 
date, on a broad level, with 
the key functions of other 
units within the organisation 

•  Understands the goals of own 
unit and encourages others to 
understand the unit and 
division/department goals. 

•  Provides advice, information 
and direction to others to 
support the achievement of 
division/department/team 
objectives 

•  Understands the impact of 
deadlines and decisions on 
other business units and 
functions 

•  Analyses and develops ideas 

•  Develops strategies within 

•  Creates strategic intent and 

for the plans of the 
division/department/team  

•  Develops operational work 

plan for own 
division/department/team 

•  Provides specialist advice 

own area to improve 
organisational performance 
and achieve strategic vision 

develops strategies to 
improve organisational 
performance and achieve 
strategic intent 

•  Aligns department/division 

gaols with the organisation’s 
strategic direction 

• 

Identifies and strategically 
manages risk 

and knowledge to colleagues 
and other individuals and 
entities to support the 
achievement of objectives 

•  Communicates the 
importance of the 
Organisation’s mission/vision 
to team and others 

• 

Identifies and manages key 
risks and raises them to 
higher levels when 
appropriate 

•  Understands the major 
organisational drivers 

• 

Identifies and manages key 
risk with little or no assistance 
from higher levels 

•  Seeks collaboration with 
others to advance goals 

•  Demonstrates applied 

knowledge in key financial 

•  Demonstrates a broad 
business perspective; 
understands the impact of 
decisions and actions on 
different business units and 
functions and develops 
strategies that integrates with 
said perspectives 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on possible enhancements or 
impediments to organisational 
performance  

•  Understands and explains 

how work unit activities and 
priorities relate to 
organisation’s strategic goals 

•  Thinks strategically and 
suggests processes or 
procedures within the unit to 
avert problems and 
accomplish goals. 

•  Converts organisation-wide 

strategies and policy direction 
into action items within areas 
of responsibility 

•  Applies an understanding of 
past situations to anticipate 
and deal with any 
opportunities or threats to 
work plan accomplishment 

(opportunities, costs, threats) 
and their likely impact on the 
business  

•  Balances resources across 
current and future goals and 
pressures 

•  Contributes to the strategic 

planning process by providing 
input on the feasibility of 
goals 

•  Suggest appropriate 

measures for assessing the 
work plan’s contribution to the 
strategic plan 

•  Ensures that peers, 

colleagues and team are 
aware of contribution to 
overall strategy of 
organisation 

• 

Identifies opportunities which 
benefit own or other areas or 
the organisation as a whole 

•  Demonstrates an 

understanding of key financial 
data and management 
principles 

•  Takes a long term view of 

opportunities and assess the 
potential long term effects of 
each decision 

•  Develops short and long term 

objectives in areas of 
responsibility for inclusion in 
strategic plans. 

data and management 
principles 

•  Takes a long term view of 

opportunities and assess the 
potential long term effects of 
each decision 

•  Creates strategic model and 
guiding principles to guide 
decisions throughout the 
organisation  

•  Leads the management team 
in developing strategic plans 
for which they have 
responsibility 

•  Ensures that financial and 
performance measures are 
integrates to achieve desired 
strategic outcomes 

•  Develops strategies that 
integrate organisational 
strengths into the overall 
organisation mission 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Is not aware of organisational strategy 

• 
•  Does not recognise the links between related activities or functions 
• 
•  Does not see the possible damaging effects of actions or decisions on other parts 

Is not interested in what is going on outside own area 

of the organisation 

•  Criticises or does not support organisational policies 

Is not willing to accept or co-operate with organisational policy 

• 
•  Focuses on short-term issues, ignoring long-term effects 
• 
•  Does not see the wider picture 
•  Does not predict and prepare for problems. 

Is not aware of the effect of own actions on other functions 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Back to Core Competencies 
Back to Technical Competencies 

Business and Project Management  

Agile Coaching:  

Formulate and Implement Agile coaching Frameworks, Processes and standards to foster Agile Mindset and practices within the organization and Develop Agile Team. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A   

N/A 

Business Agility:  

Coach teams in the 
conduct of agile practices 
and the implementation of 
agile methodologies and 
practice in the 
organization 

Evaluate the effectiveness 
of agile processed 
standards learning content 
and implementation plans 
to transition team to agile 
methodologies 

Formulate organisations 
agile coaching and 
mentoring frameworks 
processes and standards 
to drive adaption of the 
agile mythologies and 
practise 

Organize the business, Work Activities and people in way that enable the organization to Readily Adapt to changes in its Internal or External environmental whilst Achieving 
Desired Outcomes and Delivering Values to customers 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3  

Level 4  

Level 5   

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Business Environment Analysis:  

Lead the implementation 
of operational initiatives to 
enhance business agility 

Adapt overall process and 
create a working 
environment of business 
agility 

Establish polices that 
enable adaptability and 
foster a culture of 
business agility in the 
organisation 

Analyse Data pertaining to the business Landscape and environment Including Competitors-Analysis Trends and development in Laws and Regulations and the Impact on 
the business 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

Utilise a range data source 
to analyse information to 
derive business 
environmental patterns 

Utilise research 
instruments, quantitative 
and qualitative data to 
gather information in the 
business environment, 

Monitor the influence of 
external factor on the 
critical business functions, 
report findings and 

Monitor business 
environment to assess 
internal and external 
influencing factors that 
may impact strategy 

N/A 

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and producer reports to 
present findings 

evaluate data to draw out 
meaningful inferences that 
impact the organisations 
market positioning and 
provide feedback to 
management 

recommend response to 
management 

planning and operational 
plans and recommend 
response approaches to 
environmental changes 

Business Innovation: 

Identify and Evaluate Digitization and Innovative business opportunities provided by new Advancements in Information's and Communications technology to Establish new 
service or business to Bridge the Physical and Digital worlds 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Business need Analysis: 

Explore opportunities for 
business innovation and 
reform, and lead the 
implementation of 
innovative business 
intimacies 

Priorities business 
innovation opportunities 
and design digital 
architectures and 
processes to facilities the 
creation of an innovative 
business environment 

Inspire a culture of 
business and digital 
innovation within the 
beyond the organization 

Identify and scope business Requirements priorities through Rigorous Information Gathering and Analysis as well as clarification of the solutions, initiatives and programs to 
enable effective Delivery. This involves the developmental of a compelling/Defensible business Case and the Articulation of the potential Impact of the solution to the 
business     

Level 1 

N/A 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

Document business 
requirements and identify 
basic needs as well as 
potential solutions 

Elicit and analyse 
business requirements 
from key stakeholders and 
assess relevant solutions 
and their potential impact 

Investigate existing 
business processes, 
evaluate requirements and 
define the scope of 
recommended solutions 
and programmes 

Lead comprehensive 
analysis to understand 
underlying drivers and 
present a compelling 
business case for 
proposed IT solutions 

N/A 

Business Process Re-engineering: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analyse business processes and workflows within the organisation and identification of new approaches to completely redesign business activities or optimise performance, 
quality and speed of services or processes. This includes the exploration of automating and streamlining processes, evaluation of associated costs and benefits of 
redesigning business processes, as well as the identification of the potential impact and the change management activities and resources required. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Evaluate business 
processes and workflows 
and develop a business 
process re-engineering 
plan 

Establish a business 
process re-engineering 
strategy, determining the 
processes to be re-
engineered and 
significantly redefining 
process flows 

N/A 

Business Requirements Mapping: 

Map business requirement to existing processes to Identify gaps or opportunities for possible solutions against requirements to propose adjustment as needed 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Business Risk Management: 

Analyse relevant 
information from 
stakeholders and map 
business requirements to 
existing processes to 
identify faps and/or 
opportunities 

Evaluate factors and ideas 
to identify key business 
requirements and 
objectives to be achieved. 
Test relevant solutions or 
programmes and impact of 
solutions and/or 
programmes against 
identified business 
requirements to propose 
adjustments 

Define overall strategies, 
objectives and priorities to 
underscore business 
requirements mapping 
activities and assess 
alignment between 
solutions, requirements 
and eventual outcomes 

N/A 

Forecast and Asses existing and potential IT risk which impact the operation and/or profitability to the business as well as the development and roll out the company-wide 
strategies and processes to mitigate risk, minimise their Impact or effectively manage such business Risk 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/A 

N/A 

Change Management: 

Identify risk and their 
business impact 
andpropose measures to 
manage risks 

Assess current and 
potential risk within a 
defined functional area, 
and develop risk 
countermeasures and 
contingency plans 

critically evaluate, review 
and drive organisation-
wide risk mitigation and 
management initiatives 

Anticipate emerging 
threats and potential risks, 
and define the overarching 
risk management strategy 
for the business 

Plan and systematic execution of processes to facilitate the transition of individuals, teams and organisations to a desired end state in a manner that is seamless, sustainable 
and aligned with business objectives. This includes the Redirection of resource, business processes, finances and operating models, as well as stakeholder engagement to 
facilitate implementation and maximise adaption 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Crisis Management: 

Apply change control 
procedures in work 
processes, assess impact 
of change and develop 
communications to 
prepare stakeholders for 
the change 

Recommend business 
activities required to 
integrate and roll out new 
changes and drive the 
execution of change 
control procedures, 
engaging stakeholders in 
the processes 

Develop business 
readiness plan and direct 
business activities, 
processes and resource to 
facilities changes and 
transitions, and plan 
change control procedures 
for IT initiatives 

Establish the organisation 
change management 
strategy, define key 
success indicators, and 
inspire shared 
commitment to the change 

Develop and Implement crisis management plans for organisational preparedness of disruptive events within context of business continuity management 

Level 1 

N/A 

Demand Analysis: 

Level 2 

N/A 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Execute crisis 
management plans 

Manage crisis situations 

Direct the management of 
crisis situation 

Devise frameworks to assess market dynamics and execute analyses to uncover demand outlook of product or services 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

Level 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/A 

N/A 

Disaster Recovery Management: 

Manage activities to carry 
out demand analysis and 
analyse market 
characteristics of products 
or service to assess its 
demand outlook 

Assess the desirability and 
practically of ongoing 
market development 
realistically and undertake 
market development 
activities where 
appropriate 

Evaluate market dynamics 
based on market trends, 
formulate demand 
analysis framework and 
establish key priorities to 
analyse target customer in 
identifying opportunities to 
influence the market 

N/A 

Develop and implement internal policies, processes and arrangements to guide and enable the prompt recovery of critical IT infrastructure and systems following a crisis or 
disaster. This include monitoring the efficiency and effectiveness of response to significant incident and reviewing the organisation's disaster recovery plan and processes 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Emerging Technology Synthesis: 

Identify and Implement 
recovery solutions to 
support disaster recovery 
strategies 

Design a disaster recovery 
plan and review 
recommendations for 
alternate solutions and 
recovery or back up 
procedures 

Anticipate future needs of 
the organisations IT 
infrastructure, and apply 
relevant global standard to 
the organisation's disaster 
recovery strategy, polices 
and guidelines 

Monitor and integrate emerging technology trends and developments, structured data gatherings for the identification of new and emerging technological product, service and 
techniques.in addition, there performance of cost-benefit analysis and evaluation of their relevance, viability, sustainability and potential value add to the business 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

N/A 

N/A 

Conduct research and 
identify opportunities for 
new and emerging 
 technology to support 
 the business 

Evaluate new and 
emerging technology and 
trends against the 
organisational needs and 
processes 

Establish internal 
structures 
 and processes to guide 
the 
 exploration, integration 
and 

Level 6 

Establish an emerging 
technology strategy and 
spearhead organisational 
 norms to synthesise and 
leverage new technologies 
and trends to propel 
business growth 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manpower Planning: 

Estimate and fulfil manpower requirements to achieve business goal and targets 

 evaluation of new 
 technologies 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

N/A 

N/A 

Facilitate recruitment of 
manpower to meet 
forecast requirements 

Conduct project level 
manpower forecasts to 
bridge gaps between 
manpower demand and 
supply, and facilitate 
development of 
recruitment strategies 

Formulate organisational 
manpower plans to bridge 
gaps between manpower 
demand and supply based 
on current and projected 
needs of the organisation 

Level 6 

N/A 

Portfolio Management: 

Manage systemically the IT investment, project, service and activities within a company, in line with business objectives and priorities. This involves the developments of a 
framework to evaluate potential cost and benefits and make key decision about IT investments, internal allocation and utilisation of IT resource and/or assets and change to 
IT processes or services offered 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Process Improvement and Optimisation: 

Develop IT project plans 
and analyse their costs 
and benefits, based on the 
portfolio objectives and 
framework 

Plan a portfolio 
management framework 
based on business 
strategy, and manage IT 
investments 

Establish a strategy and 
future roadmap for 
managing IT portfolio and 
investments and make 
critical IT investment 
decisions for the business 

Establish system to discover critical processes and maximize these processes to achieve maximum efficiency in accordance with organisation procedures 

Level 1 

N/A 

Level 2 

N/A 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Identify and implement the 
adoption of process 

Analyse and develop, 
review of plans for process 

Devise strategies for the 
adoption of improvements 

Level 6 

N/A 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
improvement and 
optimisation methods 

improvement and 
optimisation 

and optimisation of 
processes 

Product Management: 

Create and manage a product roadmap, involving the ideating, planning, forecasting, marketing and management of a product or a suite of product throughout stages of its 
lifecycle, from its conceptualisation to market entrance and eventual phasing-out. This includes the certain of new product idea or concept and definition of the product 
strategy based on projection of its potential benefits to the customers as well as the review of product performance against milestones and target set 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Project Feasibility Assessment: 

Identify competitor, 
consumer and technology 
trends impacting the 
product, and manage the 
product lifecycle and 
performance 

Conceptualise ideas and 
develop a business model 
prototype and incubation 
plan for a new product, 
creating plans to bring the 
product to market and 
enhance its performance  

Anticipate future industry 
trends, and define the 
product incubation 
strategy and business 
model 

Re-define thinking and 
inspire the 
conceptualisation of new 
and innovative products 
that create significant 
industry impact 

Assess the business environment and organisational capabilities to evaluate and determine the feasibility of a project 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Project Management: 

Assess the business 
environment and 
organisational capabilities 
and prepare financial 
projections, as well as 
 report findings to relevant 
stakeholders 

Evaluate and determine 
feasibility of projects for 
the  
 organisation, recommend 
the authorisation of 
projects  
 and evaluate business 
environment, cost and  
 organisation capabilities 
to determine project 
feasibility  

N/A 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Perform planning, organisation, monitoring and control of all aspect of an IT Programme and the strategic utilisation of resource to achieve the objectives within the agreed 
timelines, costs and performance expectation. In addition, the identification, coordination and management of project interdependencies, ensuring alignment with and 
achievement of business objectives 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Strategy Planning: 

Oversee small projects or 
programmes, managing 
timelines, resources, risks 
and stakeholders 

Plan and drive medium 
scale projects or 
programmes, including 
allocating resources to 
different parts and 
engaging stakeholders on 
the project's progress and 
outcomes 

Lead end-to-end 
management of large 
 programmes or multiple 
projects concurrently, 
 coordinating project 
interdependencies 

Direct the management 
and authorize ownership 
of le large, complex 
programs and projects 
 ensuring alignment with 
strategic business 
priorities 

Develop organisational strategies and policies by analysing the impact of internal and external influencing factors and seeking consultation from relevant stakeholders 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Sustainability Management: 

Develop resource 
allocation 
 plans and implement 
 strategies and policies 

Formulate the strategies 
 and policies that are 
 forward-looking and 
focuses 
 on bottom line results 

Build actionable 
organisation strategy 
plans and policies that are 
forward-looking, anticipate 
strategic risks and focus 
on bottom line results 

Plan, develop and roll out of an organisation-wide sustainability strategy. This includes the assessment of the organisation utilisation and/or consumption of energy and other 
resource, vis-à-vis the availability and stability of supply source and external best practices and standards in sustainability. This also includes the on-going monitoring and 
tracking of energy and/or resource-consumption over time, to identify impact on the organisation internal and external environment as well as potential improvements in 
energy or resource efficiency 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Assess the organisation's 
utilisation of energy 
against supply 
considerations, and 
propose and implement 
 solutions to optimise 
 utilisation 

Define action plans, 
solutions and technologies 
to address energy 
efficiency gaps, and 
implement sustainability 
practices that encourage 
organisational 
commitment 

Establish an organisation- 
 wide sustainability 
strategy and introduce 
new innovative practices 
and technologies to 
optimise energy and 
resource efficiency 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Development  

Business Negotiation: 

Conduct negotiations to establish win-win outcomes for the organisation 

Level 1 

N/A 

Data Analytics: 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

Apply negotiation skills 
and techniques and 
documenting negotiations 

Participating in negotiating 

Manage and direct 
 negotiations and refining 
 negotiation policies 

Direct negotiation policy 
and develop negotiation 
limits 

Implementing data analytics within the organization to generate business insight and intelligence through the use of statical and computational techniques and tools, 
algorithms, predictive data modelling and data visualisation 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

Identify underlying trends 
and patterns in business 
data using statistical and 
computational techniques 
and tools 

Develop, apply and 
evaluate algorithms, 
predictive data modelling 
and data visualisation to 
identify underlying trends 
and patterns in data 

Design and conduct data 
studies to drive 
organisational decisions 
and insights 

Manage and enhance 
organisational data 
science capability by 
refining financial and other 
business performance 
criteria and design data 
studies 

N/A 

N/A 

Networking:  

Identifying, evaluating and strategizing to seize new business opportunities to grow the organisation's business operations 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Identify and analyse 
business opportunities 

Develop business plans 
for new opportunities 

Implementing strategies to 
capitalise on new business 
opportunities 

N/A 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Finance 

Budgeting:  

Preparing organisational budgets to support short-and long-term business plans through forecasting allocation and financial policy setting 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Prepare business unit's 
operational budgets 

Manage budgeting and 
forecasting for annual 
financial and business 
planning within the 
business unit 

Develop long-term 
financial plans and budget 
requirements 

Endorse organisational 
financial and treasury 
management policies, 
systems, budgets and 
plans 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Design and Architecture  

Data Design: 

Specify and create a data structure or database model, including the setting of various parameters of fields that can be modified to suite different structured or unstructured 
data Requirements, the design of data flow, as well as the development of mechanisms for maintenance, storage and retrieval of data based on the business requirements 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Design Thinking Practice:  

Identify data requirements 
and support the design of 
database models, 
incorporating parameters, 
fields and mechanisms for 
the maintenance, storage 
and retrieval of data 

Design data models and 
data flow diagrams and 
mechanisms to optimise 
the flow, maintenance, 
storage and retrieval of 
data 

Establish a strategy for the 
creation of large-scale 
data models and 
structures and spearhead 
the implementation of 
database 
 technology, architectures, 
software and facilities 

N/A 

Manage design thinking Methodologies and processes to solve specific challenge for the organization, and Guide stakeholders through the phase of inspiration, empathy, 
ideation and implementation 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3  

Level 4  

N/A 

N/A 

Embedded Systems Integration: 

Apply design thinking 
methodologies and 
execute design thinking 
processes to challenge 
norms and conventions in 
the organisation 

Facilitate and guide 
stakeholders to apply 
design thinking 
methodologies and 
processes for the 
organisation 

Level 5   

Level 6 

Establish effective design 
thinking processes, 
 methodologies and 
frameworks to proliferate 
design thinking across the 
organisation 

Transform organisational 
operations, processes and 
systems by contextualising 
and incorporating design 
thinking processes and 
 methodologies for the 
organisation 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Implement control system to perform pre-defined tasks and also real-time monitoring for the real world 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Embedded Systems Interface Design: 

Model, operate and 
integrate a variety of 
 sensors and actuators for 
real world applications 

Design and develop 
embedded system 
processes for the 
interfacing of embedded 
systems to the real world 

Lead the evaluation of the 
performance of embedded 
systems against specified 
requirements and user 
expectations 

N/A 

Design and set up interface and interconnections from or among sensor, through a network to a main location to enable transmission of information 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Enterprise Architecture: 

Design physical layouts 
reflecting connections 
among sensors. networks 
and data collection or 
transmitting systems, and 
test and fine tune them 

Guide the design of 
sensor networks and the 
associated embedded 
systems interfaces, and 
verify the viability of the 
designed interfaces 

N/A 

Operationalise a business strategy on the planning and development of business structures and models to facilitate the evaluation of a business to its desired future state. 
This involves the review of market trends, evaluation of alternative strategies, as well as the strategic evaluation and utilisation of enterprise capability and technology to 
support business requirements 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Infrastructure Design: 

Articulate impact of trends 
and alternative strategies 
on enterprise architecture, 
and develop action plans 
to support the transition to 
the desired future state 

Design business 
architecture blueprint and 
frameworks to achieve the 
desired future state, and 
attain enterprise resources 
to facilitate the transition 

Envision and lead the 
development of a future. 
 ready enterprise 
architecture and 
strategically manage 
resources and capabilities 
to sustain the evolution of 
the business 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Establish Design polices and principles covering elements of connectivity, capacity, security, access, interfacing, as well as the translation of that into the specifications, 
outline and design of IT infrastructure within the organisation in order to support the business requirements 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Organisational Design: 

Translate a broader 
infrastructure blueprint into 
technical specifications 
and develop prototypes for 
simple infrastructure 
components 

Define and deliver 
technical and conceptual 
visualisation of IT 
infrastructure components 
and features 

Project infrastructure 
requirements and define 
IT infrastructure design 
policies and principles, 
evaluating the viability and 
managing the impact of 
design options 

N/A 

Develop and facilitate the implementation of organisational design to ensure its effectiveness and alignment with stakeholders' priorities 

Level 1 

N/A 

Level 2 

N/A 

Security Architecture: 

Level 3 

N/A 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

Drive the implementation 
of organisational design 

Design organisational 
structures, systems and 
processes 

Align organisational 
design with business 
needs and priorities 

Design security architecture and controls; either embedding of security principles into the design of architectures to mitigate the risks posed by new technologies and 
business practices, or the actual design and specification of implementable security components, along with the accompanying control measures, to meet defined business 
security needs 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Design secure systems 
and define security 
specifications of 
components, integrating 
appropriate security 
controls 

Design a security blueprint 
and direct the design of 
robust and coherent 
security architecture, 
based on a suite of 
security solutions and key 
design principles 

Establish organizational 
guidelines and principles 
for the design of security 
architecture and controls, 
and drive the 
enhancement of 
organization-wide security 
systems 

N/A 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Software Design: 

Create and refine the overall plan for the design of software, including the design of functional specifications starting from the defined business requirements as well as the 
consideration and incorporation of various controls, functionally and interoperability of different elements into a design blueprint or model which Describes the overall 
architecture in hardware, software, database, and third-party frameworks that the software will use or interact with 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Solution Architecture: 

Design simple software 
components, assessing 
 functionality of different 
elements, and produce 
design documentation 

Create a software design 
blueprint based on a broad 
design concept, and 
business and user 
requirements 

Translate complex 
software ideas and 
concepts into a design 
blueprint and establish key 
design principles and 
methodologies 

Inspire new and innovative 
software design ideas, and 
align design principles and 
parameters with current 
and future needs 

Design or refine a solution blueprint or structure to Guide the development of IT solutions in hardware, software, processes or related components, to meet current and future 
business needs. The solution architecture developed may lead to broad or specific change to IT service, operating models and processes, and should provide a framework to 
guide the development and modification of solutions 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Develop a solution 
architecture and prepare a 
technical blueprint for a 
 given area, demonstrating 
how the solution 
addresses requirements 

Establish frameworks and 
determine relevant tools 
and techniques to guide 
the development IT 
solutions 

Level 6 

Synthesise new trends 
and developments in or 
beyond the Infocomm 
Technology (ICT) industry, 
and lead the development 
of innovative 
 and ground-breaking 
solutions that have 
significant industry impact 

System Design: 

Design system to meet specified business and user requirements that are compatible with established system architectures, as well as organisational and performance 
standards 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Design systems and 
components based on 
determined specifications 

Evaluate and review 
systems designs 

Level 6 

Formulate the 
organisation's policies, 
 standards, guidelines and 
methods for systems 
design 

User Experience Design: 

Conceptualise, project and make enhancement of the user's interaction and engagement with an IT product and/or service based on a robust analysis and understanding of 
the product and/or service performance vis-s-vis the user's desired experience and outcomes. This Involve creating wire frames to adequately Guide and Inform subsequent 
planning and development processes, and making enhancements to optimise the user's experience of the product and/or service 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Translate key user 
experience concepts and 
guidelines into simple 
wireframes, proposing 
elements of aesthetics and 
accessibility that would 
 impact the user 
experience 

Analyse and understand 
the desired experience 
from target users of IT 
products and/or services, 
and develop solutions to 
address gaps in the 
overall user experience 

Create user experience 
design concepts, develop 
user flow charts and drive 
modifications or 
enhancements to the 
product or service features 

Anticipate future user 
requirements and define 
the guiding principles and 
philosophy for the 
intended user experience, 
while ensuring its business 
viability 

N/A 

User Interface Design: 

Level 6 

N/A 

Design User interface for machines and software, incorporating visual, technical and functional elements and functional elements that facilitate ease access, understanding 
and usage. This would involve adding, removing, modifying or enhancing elements to make users interaction with the product as seamless as possible 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

N/A 

N/A 

Identify functionalities and 
information flows to 
develop components of 
user interface prototypes, 
making tweaks to 
graphical user interfaces 

Design the information 
architecture, process flow 
and user interface 
prototypes as well as 
graphical user interfaces 

Direct the development of 
prototypes and user 
interfaces, and customise 
complex graphical user 
interfaces 

Level 6 

N/A 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General Management  

Business Performance Management:  

Implement organisational performance systems to meet business plans and objectives by establishing performance indicators, tracking progress and addressing gaps 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Monitor performance of 
the department 

Manage organization 
performance systems 
across departments 

Formulate organizational 
performance systems and 
key performance 
indicators in alignment 
with organization's vision, 
mission and values 

Establish organizational 
guidelines for performance 
systems according to 
organizational mission and 
objectives 

Vendor Management: 

Manage Vendor relationships by ensuring performance as per contract, operation within standards established by the organisation such as adherence to safety, security, and 
compliance standards 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Monitor vendors' 
performance and resolve 
contractual issues 

Develop and sustain 
vendor relationships and 
manage vendors' 
performance 

Establish organisation's 
expectations of vendors 
and manage critical 
vendor 
 interactions 

N/A 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Governance and Compliance 

Audit and Compliance:  

Develop compliance processes and audit strategy for the organisation to review adherent to statutory regulatory and standards.  Assessment and enhancement of the 
thoroughness of compliance and/or governance processes and organisation internal controls to Align with changing compliance standard. This also Includes the Actual conduct 
and/or performance of Audit Activities 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Cyber Risk Management:  

Conduct audits, analyze 
results and implement 
changes to address 
identified gaps  

Develop and enhance 
compliance processes 
based on an evaluation of 
gaps in business and IT 
operations  

Establish audit and 
compliance strategy and 
objectives for the 
organization, ensuring 
robustness of internal 
controls and strengthened 

N/A 

Develop Cyber risk assessment and treatment techniques that can effectively pre-empt and identify significant security loopholes and weaknesses, demonstration of the 
business risk associated with these loopholes and provision of risk treatment and prioritisation strategies to effectively address cyber-related risks, threats and vulnerabilities 
identified to ensure appropriate levels of protection, confidentiality, integrity and privacy in alignment with the security framework. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Data Ethics:  

Apply legal and ethical principal in the collection, use, storage and disposal of data. 

Develop cyber risk 
assessment techniques 
and roll-out endorsed 
measures to address 
identified cyber security 
risks, threats and 
vulnerabilities  

Assess and direct 
enhancements to cyber 
risk assessment 
techniques, and develop 
strategies to address cyber 
security loopholes 

Evaluate the readiness 
and robustness of the 
organization's cyber 
security defenses, and 
authorize cyber risk 
assessment activities 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Data Governance:  

Apply and uphold 
principles of professional, 
legal and ethical conduct, 
policies and procedures in 
the handling of data 

Analyse unethical 
practices and apply ethical 
decision- making models 
and 
strategies to address 
ethical dilemmas and 
issues 

Formulate the 
organisation's code of 
ethics, systems and 
processes to ensure 
adherence to professional. 
legal and ethical 
requirements for data 
usage 

Drive professional, legal 
and ethical accountability 
and 
responsibility within and 
across organisations 

Develop and implement guidelines, laws, and regulations across the organisation for the handling of data at various stage in its lifecycle as well as the provision of advice on 
proper data handling and resolution of data breaches in a range of complex, ambiguous or multi-faceted contexts  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Implement guidelines, 
laws, statutes and 
regulations on appropriate 
handling of data at various 
stages in their lifecycle, 
and monitor compliance 
with data policies 

Develop organization 
practices and standards 
for handling data 
throughout their lifecycle, 
resolve breaches, and 
oversee transfer of data 
between organizations 

Establish policies for data 
security and usage, 
facilitate industry 
consensus around data 
ethics, and provide expert 
advice on data transfer 
across geographies 

Data Protection Management:  

Develop and implement a data protection management programme to comply with the personal data protection Act 2012  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Data Sharing:  

Collect, use or disclose 
personal data in 
accordance with the 
organisation's Data 
Protection Management 
Programme (DPMP) 

Develop the organisation's 
Data Protection 
Management Programme 
(DPMP) in accordance 
with legal requirements 

Formulate the 
organisation's data 
protection strategy and 
ensure effectiveness of 
Data Protection 
Management Programme 
(DPMP) 

N/A 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assess the value of data to achieve a competitive advantage and business objectives  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Conduct stock-take of the 
organisation's data assets 

Assess the value data 
assets to achieve  
organisational 
and business goals 

Evaluate the net worth of 
the organisation's data to 
achieve organisational and 
business goals 

N/A 

IT Governance:  

Set and monitor IT infrastructure, information, digital service and associated service and associated technology. This involves developing policies and practises to govern the 
organisation's approach toward handling and using IT product and service in order to ensure conformance with regulations and accountability in decision making in alignment 
with the business strategic plans and service standards  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Develop and implement 
standard operating 
procedures based on IT 
policies and practices. 
ensuring compliance with 
standards and regulations 

Develop policies and 
practices to govern the 
handling and usage of IT 
products and services and 
facilitate communications 
with governing authorities 

Establish the IT 
governance strategy and 
structure to guide policies 
and practices, and 
facilitate industry-wide 
conversations 
aroundtechnology 
governance and standards 

IT Standards:  

Develop and review of standard operating procedures as well as service expectations for IT-related activities and processes. This includes the provision of clear guidelines for 
the organisation to carry out IT-related tasks in a manner that is effective, efficient and consistent with the IT service standards and quality standards of the organisations  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Quality Standards:  

Review current practices 
of performing IT-related 
activities, and propose 
revisions to service 
standards and protocols 

Set guidelines for IT-
related activities in 
alignment with relevant 
service, quality and global 
industry standards 

Inspire enhancements and 
redefine IT standards, in 
line with the evolving 
landscape and their impact 
on service expectations 

Develop, review and communicate a clear, quality expectations and standards within an organisation that are aligned to the company's value and business objectives. This 
encompasses the setting and implementing of quality expectations for IT products and service delivered to both Internal and External clients  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Security Governance:  

Assess existing quality 
standards and align 
processes and activities 
with IT product and service 
quality expectations 

Establish and control 
quality expectations in line 
with organisation 
directions and selected 
benchmarks 

Review organisation's 
quality guidelines against 
emerging trends and 
industry best practices, 
ensuring alignment with 
company values and 
objectives 

Develop and disseminate corporate security policies, frameworks and guidelines to ensure that day to day business operations guard or are well protected against risk, threats 
and vulnerabilities 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

N/A 

Proactively identify 
security risks in business 
operations and implement 
security guidelines and 
protocols, in line with 
corporate security policies  

Evaluate security risks and 
establish corporate 
security policies and 
framework to guard 
against them  

Anticipate potential 
security threats and 
emerging trends in security 
management, establishing 
targets for the 
organization's security 
policies and systems 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
People Development  

Learning and Development:  

Manage employee's learning and development activities to maximise employee potential and capabilities to contribute to the organisation 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

People and Performance Management: 

N/A 

Support employees to 
develop their skills and 
facilitate learning 
opportunities and coaching 
junior management 
employees 

Drive employee 
developmental programs 
in alignment to business 
needs 

Mentor successors, 
support organizational 
learning and develop and 
engage employees to 
develop a strong 
organizational base 

Establish organisation-wide performance management strategic performance management, including identification of key performance indicators and employee performance 
assessment 

Level 1 

N/A 

Level 2 

N/A 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Implement performance 
management programmes 

Develop performance 
management programmes 

Establish organisation-
wide performance 
management strategies 

Level 6 

N/A 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stakeholder and Contract Management  

Contract Management:  

Formalise contract and/or service level agreements with providers of products and services including measure and manage supplier performance and fulfilment of agreed-upon 
service level agreements. This Includes resolution of contractual issue and maintenance of vendor and/or provider relationships 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Partnership Management: 

Prepare drafts of contracts 
and agreements, monitor 
vendor performance and 
resolve minor contractual 
issues on an operational 
level 

Review contracts and 
agreements and manage 
performance levels against 
agreed standards, provide 
feedback and investigate 
contractual issues 

Determine business 
viability of contracts and 
establish organisation's 
expectations of vendors, 
resolving any escalated 
performance or contractual 
issues 

N/A 

Build cooperative partnerships with inter-organisational and external stakeholders and leveraging of relations to meet organisational objectives. This includes coordination and 
strategizing with internal and external stakeholders through close cooperation and exchange of information to solve problems 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Procurement: 

Support the development 
and coordination of 
partnerships with external 
stakeholders and 
organisations 

Propose strategic 
initiatives with other 
organisations based on 
identification of mutual 
benefits, and analyse their 
impact 

Evaluate and drive inter- 
organisational initiatives 
and negotiate strategic 
information exchange with 
key partners 

Inspire direction and define 
key imperatives for inter-
organisational partnerships 
leading negotiations with 
senior leaders and on an 
international scale 

Develop and apply procurement processes related to the solicitation of technology service through external providers. This includes the review of proposals, setting of vendor 
selection guidelines, risk assessments through appropriate audits and tests and selection of external service providers based on stipulated evaluation criteria 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct research and 
simple quality, risk and 
security checks on IT 
vendors, preparing draft 
documents and materials 
required in the 
procurement process 

Prepare Requests for 
Proposals (RFP), and 
assess them against 
selection criteria and 
technical specifications, 
implementing security due 
diligence review in the 
vendor selection process 

Develop a procurement 
plan including vendor 
selection guidelines, and 
select a suitable service 
provider considering 
potential risks 

Establish an organisation- 
wide procurement process 
as well as policies and 
criteria for security due 
diligence review, retaining 
accountability for 
procurement decisions 
made 

N/A 

N/A 

Service level Management: 

Plan, monitor and manage service provisions for the achievement of agreed service level targets 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

N/A 

Stakeholder Management: 

Monitor service levels 
review and report service 
delivery deviations 

Manage fulfilment of 
service level agreements 
(SLAs) and resolve issues 
to maintain overall service 
levels 

Evaluate service levels 
and oversee 
improvements to enhance 
service performance 

Formulate the 
organisation's service 
delivery standards and 
strategy, drive a service 
level agreement (SLA)- 
oriented mindset, and 
establish strategic 
networks and partnerships 

Manage stakeholder expectations and needs by aligning those with requirements and objectives of the organisation. This involves planning of actions of effectively 
communicate with negotiate with and influence stakeholders 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Level 6 

N/A 

Identify key stakeholder 
relationship, needs and 
interests, and coordinate 
with stakeholders on a 
day-to-day basis 

Serve as the 
organization's main 
contact point for 
stakeholder 
communications, clarifying 
responsibilities among 
stakeholders, and 

Develop a stakeholder 
engagement plan and 
negotiate with 
stakeholders to arrive at 
mutually beneficial 
arrangements 

Define a strategic 
stakeholder management 
roadmap, and lead critical 
discussions and 
negotiations, addressing 
escalated issue or 
problems encountered 

Establish for the overall 
vision for the alignment of 
organization's and 
stakeholder's objectives, 
co-creating shared goals 
and strategic initiatives 
with senior stakeholders 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
engaging them to align 
expectations 

Strategy Planning and Implementation  

Data Strategy:   

Develop a robust and coherent data strategy and support architecture, policies, practises and procedures that enable the organisation to manage and utilise data in an 
effective manner. This includes introduction of innovation ways of organising, managing and integrating the data of the organisation to ensure their viability and ability to drive 
business value. It also includes the setting of information strategy, sharing, handling, and usage protocols to support alignment with relevant legislation and Business 
strategies  

Level 1  

Level 2  

Level 3  

Level 4  

Level 5   

Level 6  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

Infrastructure strategy:  

Develop data management 
structures and recommend 
policies, processes and tools 
for effective data storage, 
handling and utilisation  

Establish data management 
strategies to extract 
maximum value from 
information assets and 
support decision-making and 
business processes  

Define a coherent data 
strategy and spearhead new 
approaches to enrich. 
synthesise and apply data, 
to maximise the value of 
data as a critical business 
asset and driver  

Develop a robust strategy and plan for defining and managing a future-ready IT infrastructure, optimising is capacity, availability and synchronisation to enable an organisation 
business operation. this involve evaluating infrastructure model and options for infrastructure components, managing infrastructure investment and facilitating the 
transformation toward the desired future infrastructure model  

Level 1  

Level 2  

Level 3  

Level 4  

Level 5  

Level 6  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

Support the development of 
and implement a strategic IT 
infrastructure plan 
overseeing and 
synchronising the 

Develop a robust 
infrastructure plan and 
model that is aligned and 
adaptable to internal 
business priorities and 
external trends  

Establish a future-ready 
infrastructure strategy, 
spearheading infrastructure 
change and transformation 
to the desired future state  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
performance of 
infrastructure elements  

IT Strategy:  

Plan, develop and communicate effective inward and outward facing IT strategies, solution and action plans, driven by environment scanning and assessment of the business 
future needs and long-term strategic direction. This involves devising internal management strategies and models to support sustain IT transformations and alignment of IT 
investments and programmes with the strategy to optimise the business value from IT    

Level 1  

Level 2  

Level 3  

Level 4  

Level 5  

Level 6  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

Organisational Analysis:  

Generate insights to support 
strategic plans, systems and 
guidelines for IT and 
evaluate the potential costs 
and value of new 
programmes  

Create an IT strategy, and 
develop transformation 
initiatives to meet business  
  requirements and support 
the modernisation of the IT 
landscape  

Establish future vision and 
key priorities for the IT  
  organisation based on a 
projection of industry trend 
and developments  

Evaluate factors that can be affect the organization's performance as well as strategically assessing the organization's own resource and potential for improvement  

Level 1  

Level 2  

Level 3  

Level 4  

Level 5  

Level 6  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

Manage, review and 
evaluate systems and 
processes with a view for 
enhancements. It also 
includes gathering of 
feedback and developing 
solutions to close gaps and 
to make improvements  

Lead the conduct of 
functional analysis and 
recommending areas for 
enhancement in functional 
operations  

Synergise organisational 
analysis, reviewing and 
evaluating findings and 
communicating findings to 
relevant stakeholders as 
well as advising on 
improvements for the 
organisation  

Security Strategy:  

Establish the organisation's security vision, strategy and initiatives to ensure adequate protection of assets. this involves the planning, implementation and review of 
enterprise-wide security controls which include polices and processes, physical infrastructure, software and hardware function to govern and preserve the privacy, security 
and confidentially of the organisation's information and assets    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Level 1  

Level 2  

Level 3  

Level 4  

Level 5  

Level 6  

N/A  

N/A  

N/A  

Assess security risks, 
threats and vulnerabilities, 
and recommend security 
initiatives to mitigate them  

Establish security goals and 
objectives as well as policies 
and standards to guide 
information security and 
assurance in the current and 
future landscape  

Create a security vision for 
the organisation and 
establish an overarching 
information security strategy 
and frameworks  

Strategy Implementation:  

Execute and implement operational and tactical-level action plans in alignment with the organisation's business strategies  

Level 1  

N/A  

Level 2  

N/A  

Level 3  

Level 4  

Level 5   

Level 6   

Analyse strategies for critical 
business functions to ensure 
plans are within risk 
mitigation factors  

Analyse strategies for critical 
business functions to ensure 
plans are within risk 
mitigation factors  

N/A  

N/A  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

HR Security Policy 

V1-2020 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 6: HR SECURITY POLICY 

INTRODUCTION 

As a professional organization and a responsible employer, STS takes the subject of information security 
very seriously. People are our most important asset, but unfortunately represent one of the major 
vulnerabilities from an information security perspective, as they are often the target of malicious 
activities such as phishing and other forms of social engineering.  

In order to manage this exposure and keep our people and our information safe, STS has defined a 
policy which describes the controls required and the rules that must be followed with regards to human 
resources.      

This policy applies to all systems, people and processes that constitute the organization’s information 
systems, including Board Members, Directors, Employees, Suppliers and other third parties who have 
access to STS systems.   

Pre-Employment 

BACKGROUND CHECKS 

Appropriate background verification checks will be carried out on all candidates for employment prior to 
their starting work with the organization.  

The specific screening activities that should be applied in any particular case will depend on a number 
of risk factors including, but not limited to, the following:  

If the role will have access to financial assets  

•  The classification of information they will have access to  
• 
•  The level of potential to cause harm to the organization  
• 
•  Whether driving a motor vehicle is required  
If likely to come into contact with minors  
• 
•  Any other factors that are deemed by management to be relevant to the ongoing security of the 

Level of involvement in technology  

organization  

A judgement must be made in each case about the appropriate level of background verification to be 
applied.  

This must reach a balance between being sufficiently rigorous to protect the organization 
without placing an undue burden of time, cost or effort on the recruitment process.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
EMPLOYEMENT CONTRACTS  

Employment contracts, including those with contract staff, must specify relevant requirements for 
information security, including a commitment to comply with STS policies in this area. Roles that have 
access to classified information will also be required to sign a Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA).  

During Employment  

MANAGEMENT RESPOLNSIBILITIES 

It is important that all employees with management responsibility ensure that STS information security-
related policies and procedures are followed by staff (both internal employees and contractors) within 
their supervision at all times. Any instances of non-compliance must be identified and addressed 
through normal management channels, including disciplinary action where appropriate.  

INFORMATION SECURITY AWARENESS 

Information security awareness training will be provided to all employees and contractors to a level of 
detail appropriate to their job role. This will include information about STS policies and procedures and 
the specific risks and threats relevant to the employee or contractor’s area of work.  

Awareness training will be delivered as part of new starter inductions and updates to relevant 
information communicated to all employees and contractors when appropriate, and in a timely 
manner.  

DISCIPLINARY PROCESS 

Instances where a clear breach of information security policy or procedure has been committed by an 
employee will be subject to STS disciplinary procedures. In serious cases, where the organization has 
been put at significant risk as a result of the employee’s actions, termination of employment may be 
considered.    

In less serious cases, the provision of additional information security awareness training may be 
appropriate as one of the actions to address the situation.  

Termination and Change of Employment 

CHANGE OF ROLE 

In situations where an employee experiences a temporary or permanent change of job role, including 
reassignment, secondment and sabbatical, those information security responsibilities from their 
previous role (for example for confidentiality) that will continue must be defined and emphasized to the 
employee.  

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
Any failure on the part of the employee to observe their continuing responsibilities for information 
security may be subject to disciplinary action.  

TERMINATION  

Where an employee’s position with the organization is terminated on a permanent basis, the 
information security responsibilities and duties that must continue to be observed post-employment will 
be defined in writing and communicated to the employee.  

It must be stated to the terminated employee that any failure on their part to observe their continuing 
responsibilities for information security may be subject to legal action.  

 
 
    
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Ranking System 

V1-2021 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 7: RANKING SYSTEM 

The purpose of this policy is to outline the current STS ranking system and will outline the different ranks, benefits 
associated to each rank as well as how to move from rank to rank. 

STS applies a job evaluation system that ranks all positions in a unified manner in order to help attract and retain 
talent, provide clarity about roles and responsibilities, define and implement a fair and equitable compensation and 
benefit system both internally and externally and to provide clear guidelines for promotion and job advancement. 

Ranks are given to positions regardless of who is filling the position.  They are position based and not person based.  
Each position is evaluated based on the job description and specifications of the position. 

RANGES OF RANKS 

The ranges of ranks available start from A1 and go up to H3.  Not all ranks have corresponding positions at STS. 

ABOUT STS’S RANKING SYSTEM 

The Ranking System implemented at STS is based on the Mercer Human Resource Consulting System.   

Four factors are measured to determine the rank of each position.  The first three factors are two-dimensional, and 
the last factor is three-dimensional.  Following is a brief explanation of each factor. 

FACTOR ONE - IMPACT/CONTRIBUTION 
This factor considers the nature of the position’s impact which is modified by the level of the contribution of the 
position.  First, the impact of the position is determined and then the level of contribution is assigned in order to 
measure this factor.  The impact and contribution levels vary from 1-5 and may only be assigned absolute values.  
See Appendix (a) for the guidelines of setting the level of impact and contribution of a position.  

FACTOR TWO - COMMUNICATION/FRAME 
This factor looks at the communication skills required by the position.  First the type of communication the position 
requires is measured and then the evaluation is modified by selecting the context for the most difficult and 
challenging communications. The communication factor varies from 1-5 while the frame varies from 1-4.  The 
communication factor may be assigned half values (e.g. 3.5, 2.5) but the frame factor may only be assigned absolute 
values.  See Appendix (b) for the guidelines of setting the type and frame of communication needed for a position. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FACTOR THREE - INNOVATION/COMPLEXITY 
This factor looks at the level of innovation that a position requires.  First, the level of innovation expected from the 
position is determined and then the level of complexity of the innovation is set.  The levels of Innovation vary from 
1-5 while the levels of Complexity of the innovation vary from 1-4.  Both factors may be assigned half values.  See 
Appendix (c) for the guidelines of setting the level and complexity of innovation required for a position. 

FACTOR FOUR - KNOWLEDGE/TEAMS/BREADTH 
This factor relates to the nature of knowledge required in a job position to accomplish objectives and create value.  
Knowledge may be acquired through formal education and/or work experience.  First, the depth of knowledge 
applied is specified, and then it must be identified whether the position holder must apply the knowledge as a team 
member, team leader or manager of teams.  Finally, the geographic context in which the knowledge is applied is 
determined. The level of knowledge varies from 1-8 and may be assigned half values whereas the Teams and 
Breadth factors each vary from 1-3 and may only be assigned absolute values. See Appendix (d) for the guidelines of 
setting the level of knowledge of a position, how the knowledge is applied and the geographic context in which the 
knowledge is applied for a position. 

BENEFITS BY RANK 

In order to differentiate between different ranks, STS assigns a set of benefits that differs from rank to rank.  

TRAVEL, ACCOMMODATIONS AND PER DIEMS 

Work or training related travel at  STS is quite common, in some  divisions/departments more than in others.  STS 
covers travel and accommodation expenses for those travelling as well as providing a daily per diem rate.  Details on 
flight reservations, accommodations and per diem rates will be in line with the prevailing STS Travel Policy.   

RELOCATION ALLOWANCE 

In the case where an existing STS employee is requested to relocate from one STS office to another in a different 
country, they will be entitled to relocation assistance as per the prevailing relocation policy outlined in the relevant 
section of this manual.   

ADDITIONAL VACATION DAYS 

STS allows  employees vacation days as provided by the Local Labour Law  in the country in which they have their 
contracts.  In addition, employees may be entitled to additional days of leave per year depending on their ranks.   
Details of the additional vacation days by rank are as follows:  

Rank 

A1 – A3 

B1 – B3 

C1 – C3 

Leaves 

as per Local Labour Law 

as per Local Labour Law 

as per Local Labour Law 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D1 – D3 

as per Local Labour Law + 4 days 

E1 – E3 

F1 – F3 

as per Local Labour Law + 7 days 

as per Local Labour Law + 10 days 

G1 – G3 

as per Local Labour Law + 15 days 

RANK ALLOWANCE 

Employees ranked A1-D2 are entitled to a rank allowance for every upgrade in their rank correlating to a change in 
position.  The amount of the rank allowance varies depending on the rank the employee is being upgraded to.  The 
last rank entitled to such an allowance is D2 being upgraded to D3.  Employees moving from D3 to E1 and upwards 
are not entitled to rank upgrades.  

If for whatever reason, a position has been incorrectly ranked and the rank of the position is altered without 
changing the roles and responsibilities of the job then no rank allowance will be awarded to employees whose ranks 
will change as a result of this change in rank. 

In the unlikely event that a person moves up more than a rank at once (i.e. move from an A2 to a B3) then they are 
entitled to only a single rank allowance and the allowance given is the highest one (so in our example it would be 
the allowance for moving from B2 to B3).  

Rank allowances for the different locations are set by management based on multiple factors and are announced to 
employees accordingly.  Rank allowances for one or more locations may change (increase or decrease) at the 
discretion of management as long as the change is announced in advance.  At the time this policy is published, the 
rank allowances are set as per the below table: 

Moving from 

Jordan 

UAE 

KSA 

Bahrain 

Palestine 

A1 to A2 

JOD 15 

AED 230  

SAR 230  

BHD 25  

80 ILS 

A2 to A3 

JOD 20 

AED 310  

SAR 310  

BHD 30  

115 ILS 

A3 to B1 

JOD 30 

AED 470  

AED 470  

BHD 45  

155 ILS 

B1 to B2 

JOD 35 

AED 540  

SAR 540  

BHD 55 

190 ILS 

B2 to B3 

JOD 40 

AED 620  

SAR 620  

BHD 60 

B3 to C1 

JOD 55 

AED 860  

SAR 860  

BHD 85 

230 ILS 

270 ILS 

C1 to C2  

JOD 60 

AED 930  

SAR 930  

BHD 95 

305 ILS 

C2 to C3 

JOD 65 

AED 1010  

SAR 1010  

BHD 100 

345 ILS 

C3 to D1 

JOD 85 

AED 1320  

SAR 1320  

BHD 130 

380 ILS 

D1 to D2 

JOD 90 

AED 1400  

SAR 1400  

BHD 140 

420 ILS 

D2 to D3 

JOD 95 

AED 1480  

SAR 1480  

BHD 150 

455 ILS 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEALTH INSURANCE 

STS provides health insurance to all its employees.  Depending on the rank of employees, they are insured at 
different levels and may include their family members in the group insurance plan after a certain period has elapsed 
since their hire date.  This period varies depending on the rank of the employee. Certain terms and conditions in 
Health Insurance contracts as well as insurance and visa regulations in different countries may dictate differences in 
the benefits in different countries in which STS operates. 

Enrolment in the Company Health Insurance Plan in different STS locations and for the different ranks is as follows: 

Jordan 

UAE 

KSA 

Bahrain 

Palestine 

Rank 

A1 – A3 

B1 – B3 

C1 – C3 

Immediately, employee, spouse & children 
Class C 

Immediately, employee, spouse & children 
Class C 

Immediately, employee, spouse & children 
Class B 

D1 – D3 

Immediately, employee, spouse & children 
Class B 

E1 – E3 

F1 – F3 

Immediately, employee, spouse & children 
Class A 

Immediately, employee, spouse & children 
Class A 

G1 – G3 

Immediately, employee, spouse & children 
Class A 

RANK UPGRADES 

ANNUAL RANK UPGRADES 

Immediately, employee, spouse & children  

Immediately, employee, spouse & children  

Immediately, employee, spouse & children  

Immediately, employee, spouse & children  

Immediately, employee, spouse & children  

Immediately, employee, spouse & children  

Immediately, employee, spouse & children  

STS Annual Performance Evaluations are conducted at the end of the calendar year and subsequent to that, the 
employee’s manager considers an employee’s performance on both objectives and competencies along with their 
rank and job responsibilities and determines whether to recommend an employee for a rank upgrade. 

Individual and overall rank upgrade requests are then reviewed by HR and finally are sent to Management for 
approval.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix (a) 

IMPACT 

This factor considers the nature of a position’s impact, which is modified by the level of its contribution.  First, determine the nature of the position’s 
impact.  Then determine whether the level of contribution is limited, some, direct, significant or major . 

Impact 

Nature and scope of 
influence a position has on 
its area of 
responsibility/operation 

1 

Delivery 

Deliver according to 
specific standards and 
guidelines 

2 

Operational 

Work within operational 
target or service 
standards 

3 

Tactical 

Specify new products, 
processes and standards 

1 

Limited 

2 

Some 

Contribution 

3 

Direct 

4 

Significant 

5 

Major 

Hard to discern 
contribution to 
achievement of 
concrete results 

Easily discernible 
contribution that usually 
leads indirectly to 
achievement of results 

Steer the course of action 
that determines the 
achievement of results 

Quite marked 
contribution with 
authority of a frontline 
or primary nature 

Predominant authority in 
determining the 
achievement of key 
results 

Deliver own output by 
following defined 
procedures/ processes 
under close supervision 
and guidance 

Deliver own output 
following broad 
framework or standards 
with some impact on job 
area   

Deliver own output 
according to specific 
operational target with 
direct impact on the job 
area  

Deliver own output 
with significant impact 
on operational targets 
and the job area  

Deliver own output with 
major targets in the job 
area 

Work to achieve 
objectives and deliver 
results with a short 
term, operational focus 

set day to day objectives 
that have some longer 
term impact within the 
job area 

Set objectives and deliver 
results that have direct 
longer term impact 
within the job area 

Work to achieve 
objectives and deliver 

Implement business 
strategies with some 

Implement business 
strategies with direct 

Set objectives and 
deliver results that 
have a significant 
impact within the 
context of a wider 
operational area  

Establish and 
Implement business 
strategies with  
significant impact on 

Set objectives and deliver 
results that have a major 
impact within the context 
of a wider operational 
area 

Establish and Implement 
business strategies with  
a major impact on 

 
 
 
 
 
 
based on organisation 
strategy or set 
operational plans 

4 

Strategic 

Establish and implement 
business strategies with 
a longer-term focus 
based on the 
organisation’s vision 

5 

Visionary 

Lead an organisation to 
develop and achieve its 
mission, vision and 
values.  

results with a long 
term, tactical focus 

impact on business unit/ 
function results  

impact on business unit/ 
function results 

business unit/ function 
results 

business unit/ function 
results 

Devise and recommend 
business strategies 
with limited impact on 
a corporate business 
unit or organisation 

Devise and recommend 
business strategies with 
some impact on a 
corporate business unit or 
an organisation 

Devise and recommend 
business strategies with 
direct impact on a 
corporate business unit 
or an organisation 

Lead an organisation 
within a corporation or a 
corporate business unit. 
Receive guidance on 
strategies/ policies on 
most aspects of business. 

Lead an organisation 
within a corporation or a 
corporate business unit. 
Receive some support 
and direction from other 
units or headquarters.  

Lead an organisation 
within a corporation or 
a corporate business 
unit. Receive complete 
support/ direction from 
other units or 
headquarters on 
tactical issues. (E.g. 
pricing, HR, financial 
policies, etc.) 

Establish and 
Implement  business 
strategies with  
significant impact on a 
corporate business unit 
or an organisation 

Lead an independent 
organisation or 
multiple organisations 
or corporate business 
units within a 
corporation. Make own 
decisions that may 
impact the long term 
strategies of the 
organisation(s)  

Establish and Implement  
business strategies with  
a major impact on a 
corporate business unit 
or an organisation 

Lead a corporation with 
multiple organisations or 
business units. Create, 
communicate and 
implement mission, 
vision, and values for 
entire corporation. 
Typically- the chairman 
of the board.   

Copyright © William M. Mercer October 2001 

 
 
 
 
 
1. 

2. 

COMMUNICATION 
This factor looks at the communication skills required by the position.  First, determine the type of communications that the position holder is engaged in.  Then 
modify the evaluation by selecting the context for the most difficult and challenging communications.  

Appendix (b) 

1 

2 

3 

4 

Frame 

Communication 

Internal Shared Interests 

External Shared Interests 

Internal Divergent Interests 

External Divergent Interests 

Position’s responsibility for 
communications both within 
and outside the 
organisation.  

1 

Convey 

Communicate by 
statement, suggestion, 
gesture or appearance 

2 

Adapt and Exchange 

Reach agreement 
through flexibility and 
compromise 

Common desire to reach a 
solution within a 
corporation 

Common desire to reach a 
solution outside a corporation 

Conflicting objectives that 
inhibit reaching a solution 
within a corporation 

Conflicting objectives that 
inhibit reaching a solution 
outside a corporation 

Obtain and provide 
information to others 
within the organisation. 

Obtain and provide information 
to external parties. 

Obtain and provide information 
to others within the 
organisation where tact is 
required to avoid conflict. 

Obtain and provide information 
to external parties where tact is 
required to avoid conflict. 

Explain facts, practices, 
policies, etc. to others 
within the organisation. 

Explain facts, practices, policies, 
etc. to external parties. 

Explain facts, practices, 
policies, etc. to others within 
the organisation where past 
practices or divergent views 
constrain agreement.  

Explain facts, practices, 
policies, etc. to external 
parties. where there may be 
scepticism or reluctance to 
agree. 

3 

Influence 

Effect change without 
direct exercise of 
command 

Convince others within the 
organisation where strong 
interest exists to accept 
new concepts practices, 
and approaches. 

Convince external parties that 
have a desire to reach agreement 
to accept new concepts, practices 
and approaches. 

Convince others within the 
organisation sceptical or 
unwilling to accept new 
concepts practices, and 
approaches. 

Convince external parties who 
are sceptical or unwilling to 
accept new concepts, practices 
and approaches. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
4 

Negotiate 

Come to agreement by 
managing 
communications 
through discussions and 
compromise.  

5  Negotiate Strategically 

Manage 
communications of 
great importance within 
an integrated 
framework with long-
term implications.   

Convince others within the 
organisation to accept 
complete proposals and 
programs where all parties 
are willing participants. 

Convince external parties that 
have a desire to reach agreement 
to accept complete proposal and 
programs. 

Convince others in the 
organisation to accept 
complete proposals and 
programs where there may be 
little interest in cooperating or 
participating. 

Convince external parties  to 
accept complete proposals and 
programs where there may be 
little interest in cooperating or 
participating 

Reach agreement of 
strategic importance with 
others within the 
organisation who have 
different points of view but 
a shared objective.   

Reach agreement of strategic 
importance with others outside 
the organisation that have 
differing points of view but 
shared interests.   

Reach agreement of strategic 
importance with others within 
the organisation that have 
differing perspectives and 
objectives. 

Reach agreement of strategic 
importance with others outside 
the organisation that have 
widely differing perspectives 
and objectives. 

 
 
 
INNOVATION 
This factor looks at the level of innovation that the position requires.  First identify the level of innovation expected from the position.  Then determine the level 
of complexity of the innovation.   

Appendix (c) 

1 

Defined 

2 

Difficult 

3 

Complex 

4 

Multi-dimensional 

Complexity 

Innovation 

Identify, develop and make 
improvements to new ideas, 
techniques, procedures, 
services or products.  

1 

Follow 

Compare with a source, 
original or authority. 

Problems and issues are 
clearly prescribed 

Problems and issues are only 
vaguely defined 

Follow a set procedure in 
performance of repeated 
tasks or job activities  

Follow a well-established and 
familiar set of job activities or a 
job process to derive a solution  

2 

Check 

Make minor changes 

Check problems in existing 
systems or process 

Check and correct problems that 
are not immediately evident in 
existing systems or process 

Any two or three dimensions 
i.e. Operational, Financial and 
Human – requires broad-based 
solutions.  

Follow a set of job activities or 
a job process, and face issues 
and problems that are difficult 
to deal with, manage, or 
overcome. 

All three dimensions – 
Operation, Financial, Human – 
requires end-to-end solutions 

Follow processes, and face 
issues and problems that are 
difficult to deal with, manage, 
or overcome. 

Identify, define and develop 
solutions to issues and 
problems that are not 
immediately evident in existing 
systems or process 

Identify, define, address and 
solve multi-dimensional issues 
and problems that are not 
immediately evident in existing 
systems or process 

3 

Modify 

Enhance in value or 
quality, make better 

Update or modify working 
methods in own role based 
upon defined procedures 

Identify problems and update or 
modify working methods in own 

Analyse complex issues and 
modify working methods in 
own work area 

Extensively analyse complex 
multi-dimensional issues and 

 
 
 
 
role without the benefit of 
defined procedures 

4 

Improve 

Enhance entire process, 
systems or products  

Improve or adapt methods 
and techniques drawing 
from personal experiences 
and feedback   

Identify problems and improve or 
adapt methods and techniques 
drawing from personal 
experiences and feedback   

Analyse complex issues and 
improve or adapt methods and 
techniques 

5 

Create / Conceptualize 

Form and bring into 
existence a new concept 
or method     

Create/ conceptualize new 
methods, techniques and/ 
or processes in a single job 
area/ function 

Create/ conceptualize new 
methods, techniques and/ or 
processes across job areas or 
functions 

6 

Scientific/Technical 
Breakthrough 

Make an unexpected or 
revolutionary advance 
especially in knowledge 
or technique.     

Bring together multiple 
concepts to define a new 
direction or a significant 
advance to products or 
services in a specific 
product/ service area 

Bring together multiple concepts 
across job areas to define a new 
direction or a significant advance 
to products or services 

Analyse complex issues before 
creating/  conceptualizing new 
methods, techniques and/ or 
processes across job areas or 
functions 

Analyse  complex issues and 
bring together multiple 
concepts across functions to 
define a new direction or a 
significant advance to products 
or services 

modify working methods in 
own work area  

Extensively analyse complex 
multi-dimensional issues and  
issues and improve or adapt 
methods and techniques 

Extensively analyse complex 
multi-dimensional issues  and 
create/  conceptualize new 
methods, techniques and/ or 
processes across job areas or 
functions 

Extensively analyse complex 
multi-dimensional issues  and  
bring together multiple 
concepts across functions to 
define a new direction or a 
significant advance to products 
or services 

Copyright © William M. Mercer October 2001 

 
 
 
 
 
 
KNOWLEDGE 

Appendix (d) 

This factor relates to the nature of knowledge required in job to accomplish objectives and create value.  Knowledge may be acquired through formal 
education and/or work experience.  First specify the depth of knowledge applied and then identify whether the position holder applies the knowledge as a 
team member, team leader or manager of teams.  Finally, ascertain the geographic context in which the knowledge is applied.    

1 

Teams 

2 

3 

Knowledge 

Team Member 

Team Leader 

Teams Manager 

Minimum level of 
knowledge required to fulfil 
one’s responsibilities.  

Individual contributor, no 
direct responsibility for 
leading others. 

1 

Limited Job Knowledge 

Know-how restricted 
within narrow 
boundaries 

Follow basic work routines 
and standards 

2 

Basic Job Knowledge 

Fundamental know-
how 

Apply basic knowledge of 
systems and procedures for 
ones own position  

Coaches team members (at 
least three) in skills; leads, 
schedules, allocates and 
monitors work. 

Lead team to ensure 
output through 
implementation of basic 
knowledge of systems and 
procedures  

Lead team through 
application of basic 
knowledge of systems and 
procedures 

Directs more than one team; 
determines team structure and 
roles of members  

Manage and lead teams through 
implementation of basic work 
routines and standards 

Breadth 

Application of knowledge 

Manage team through 
application of basic knowledge of 
systems and procedures 

Domestic 
 Locations within a country or 
neighbouring countries with 
similar culture 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 

3 

3 

Broad Job Knowledge 

Wide-ranging know-
how 

Apply broad knowledge of one 
job area or basic knowledge of 
several related job areas 

Lead team through 
application of broad 
knowledge of one job area 
or basic knowledge of 
several related job areas 

Manage and lead teams through 
application of adequate 
knowledge of  one job area or 
basic knowledge of several 
related job areas 

Regional 

Continental region (e.g. 
Europe, Asia, North America, 
Latin America, Middle East) 

Apply deep knowledge of job 
area or broad knowledge of 
several related job areas   

Lead team through 
application of deep 
knowledge of one job area 
or broad knowledge of 
several related job areas 

Manage and lead teams through 
deep knowledge of  one job area 
or adequate knowledge of 
several related job areas 

Global 

All regions of the world 

Apply broad knowledge in 
most or all areas within a 
function 

Lead team through broad 
knowledge in most or all 
areas within a function 

Manage and lead teams through 
broad knowledge in most or all 
areas within a function  

Apply broad & deep 
knowledge of all job areas 
within a function or practical 
experience in several 
functional areas  

Lead a team through broad 
and deep knowledge of all 
job areas within a function 
or practical experience in 
several functional areas  

Manage and lead teams through  
broad and deep knowledge of all 
job areas within a function or 
practical experience in several 
functional areas 

4 

Expertise 

Special skills or 
knowledge 
representing mastery 
of a particular subject.  

5 

Professional standard 

Broad know-how 
needed to conform to 
the technical or ethical 
standards of a 

profession.      

6 

Functional Specialist / 
Organisation 
Generalist 

Concerned expertise in 
a special activity, field, 
or practice or 
experience in many 
organisation 
management areas.    

Copyright © William M. Mercer October 2001 

 
 
 
1 

2 

3 

Teams 

Knowledge 

Team Member 

Team Leader 

Teams Manager 

Minimum level of 
knowledge required to fulfil 
one’s responsibilities.  

Individual contributor, no 
direct responsibility for 
leading others. 

Coaches team members (at 
least three) in skills; leads, 
schedules, allocates and 
monitors work. 

Lead team through broad 
practical  experience of all 
major functions within an 
organisation or pre-
eminent expertise in a 
single function 

Directs more than one team; determines team structure 
and roles of members  

Manage and lead teams through broad practical  
experience of all major functions within an organisation or 
pre-eminent expertise in a single function 

 Apply broad practical 
experience of all major 
functions within an 
organisation or pre-eminent 
expertise in a single function  

Apply broad and deep 
practical experience of all 
major functions within 
multiple organisations 

Lead team through broad 
and deep practical 
experience of all major 
functions within multiple 
organisations 

Manages and leads  team through broad and deep 
practical experience of all major functions within multiple 
organisations 

Functional Pre-eminence / 
Broad Practical Experience 

Recognised as having 
paramount capability in a 
profession.  Widely varied 
experience in many areas 
of organisation 
management. 

Broad and Deep practical 
experience 

Widely varied and in depth 
experience in application in 
many areas of organisation 
management. 

Copyright © William M. Mercer October 2001 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

STS Code of Ethics 

V1-2018 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
CHAPTER 5: STS CODE OF ETHICS 

Letter from the Chairman of the Board 

Introduction to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  

At STS, we are committed to conducting our business with honesty and integrity and complying with all 
applicable laws. STS’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (“Code”) exemplifies our dedication to these 
high business standards. The Code summarizes the legal and ethical principles that we follow in our daily 
work and applies these principles to our policies and practices.  

STS’s commitment to the Code starts at the top of the corporation. The STS Ethics Office reports to the 
Board of Directors and assesses STS’s overall compliance with applicable law and the Code, oversees the 
compliance training program and considers the appropriate response to significant compliance matters 
and legal developments.  

Laws and standards vary in different countries and cultures, but, as a regional company, our common goal 
and continuing commitment is to maintain equally high standards wherever we operate. Some parts of 
the Code focus on United States laws because the majority of STS vendors are from the US and we have 
a  high  degree  of  business  regulation  to  be  maintained.  However,  this  U.S.  focus  does  not  reduce  our 
obligation and commitment  to  also comply with the applicable laws of countries  in which we operate 
and/or conduct business.  

The obligations in the Code apply to:  

• STS Corporation, its  subsidiaries,  affiliates, joint ventures and all other entities, that, in each 
case, are directly or indirectly controlled or managed by STS;  
• The employees and directors of these entities (to the extent applicable to their work for STS)  
• Suppliers and contractors in their work on behalf of STS.  

All  of  us,  including  all  employees,  officers,  directors  and  others  who  are  bound  by  the  Code,  are 
responsible  for  becoming  familiar  with  and  abiding  by  the  Code.  In  addition,  STS  group,  division  and 
operations managers and supervisors are accountable for compliance with – and enforcement of – the 
Code by the operations they manage. Failure to carry out these responsibilities may lead to disciplinary 
action, including discharge.  

You are also required to promptly and accurately report any violations of the Code that come to your 
attention. Sections 3 and 4 of the Code contain specific information on fulfilling your reporting obligations. 
Reporting and information resources are also provided at the end of the Code. The Code is not intended 
to cover every possible ethical or legal situation. Wisdom, discretion and sound judgment should guide 
everyone.  
We need your commitment to help maintain the moral, ethical and law-abiding heritage that has been so 
important to STS. I know I can count on it.  

Ramzi Zeine 
Chairman of the Board 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We Are Committed to Ethical Behaviour 

Commitment to Ethics. 

Ethical behaviour is an individual responsibility. Behaviour reflecting high ethical standards is expected of 
all directors, employees and others who are bound by the Code, regardless of position or location.  

No director, officer, manager  or supervisor has the authority to violate or require conduct  by another 
employee or any other person that violates the Code, other STS policies or applicable law.  

The obligations in the Code apply to STS Corporation, its subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures and all other 
entities, that, in each case, are directly or indirectly controlled or managed by STS, the employees and 
directors of these entities (to the extent applicable to their work for STS) and suppliers and contractors in 
their work on behalf of STS.  

Management Responsibility for Ethics  

All STS Officers, managers and supervisors are accountable for the actions of the employees who report 
to them and responsible for seeing that the Code, other STS policies and applicable laws are followed.  

They must:  

• 

Inform their employees  about company policies, including those dealing with legal and ethical 
behaviour. 

•  Ensure  that  appropriate  ongoing  employee  training  occurs  and  that  violators  of  the  Code  are 

appropriately disciplined. 

•  Avoid hiring individuals who have a propensity to violate any applicable law or rules of the type 

embodied in the Code; and 

•  Maintain  a  work  environment  where  constructive,  frank,  and  open  discussion  about  ethics  is 

• 

encouraged and expected       without fear of retaliation. 
In this effort, managers should seek and will receive support from STS’s Human Resources and 
the Ethics Office. 

 We Comply with the Code, Other STS Policies, and All Applicable Laws 

We comply with the Code, other STS policies and all applicable laws in conducting our business.  

There are countries where common trading or negotiating practices are based on codes of conduct that 
are less stringent or different than the Code. In such countries, employees should follow the Code, except 
for variances that are permitted by applicable law and are based on good ethical and business judgment.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The relevant division manager or General Managers of STS Corporation must approve any such variance 
in writing if no division manager is available. Contact an STS lawyer if you have any questions about the 
application  of  the  law  of  any  country,  about  the  Code,  or  about  the  relation  or  any  apparent  conflict 
between them.  

In the unusual circumstances where a waiver of the Code would be appropriate for an executive officer 
or director, such waiver must be approved by the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board and 
promptly disclosed as required by applicable laws and regulations. In the case of all other employees, only 
a corporate officer, in conjunction with the Board of Directors, may grant such a waiver.  

We Fulfil the STS Ethics Office Program 

STS Ethics Office 

The STS Ethics Office will be headed by an Ethics/Compliance Officer and reports directly to the CEO and 
Board of Directors. Ms. Rasha Atallah is selected as STS Ethics Officer starting August 2018.  The Ethics 
Office/Officer  assesses  STS’s  overall  compliance  with  applicable  law  and  the  Code,  oversees  the 
compliance training program, and considers the appropriate response to significant compliance matters 
and  legal  developments.  In  addition  to  the  resources  that  can  be  provided  for  asking  questions  and 
reporting  suspected  violations  of  the  Code,  employees  are  encouraged  to  contact  the  Ethics  Office 
through the address below:  

STS Ethics Office  

Ms. Rasha I. Atallah 

Shaban’s Building 

Amman, Jordan - 11195 

Or: STS Ethics Response Line: ++962795767989 

Or: STS Ethics Email: ethics@sts.com.jo 

We Report Suspected Non-Compliance 

Any employee who learns of a suspected violation of the Code must immediately report it by following 
the procedure below. Employees are required to come forward with any such information without regard 
to the identity or position of the suspected offender. 

STS  will  treat  the  information  in  a  confidential  manner  and  will  ensure  that  no  acts  of  retribution  or 
retaliation will be taken against anyone for making a report in good faith. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Compliance Reporting Procedure  

Employee Report: Any employee who learns of a violation of the Code must immediately report it.  

Investigation:  It  is  STS’s  policy  and  intent  to  investigate  any  reported  violation of  the  Code,  other  STS 
policy, or applicable law, and to take appropriate action, as determined by STS, based on the results of 
the  investigation.  Reports  of  violations  of  accounting,  accounting  controls  and  audit  matters  will  be 
investigated under the supervision of the Board of Directors.  

All other violations will be investigated under the supervision of the Ethics Office. Employees are expected 
to cooperate in the investigation of reported violations.  

Confidentiality: The investigators will not disclose the identity of anyone who reports a suspected violation 
or who participates in the investigation. Employees should be aware that the Ethics Office is obligated to 
act in the best interests of STS and do not act as personal representatives or lawyers for the employees.  

Protection against Retaliation: Retaliation in any form against an individual, who in good faith reports a 
violation  of  the  Code,  or  who  assists  in  the  investigation  of  a  reported  violation,  is  prohibited.  Every 
employee may report such violations without fear of retaliation by co-workers, supervisors or others that 
are the subject of the report.  

Discipline for Non-compliance  

Failure to comply with the Code will result in disciplinary action ranging from a reprimand to dismissal.  

Civil or criminal violations may be prosecuted.  

We Value and Safeguard Our Relationships with Customers  

Most Valued Supplier  

A primary objective at STS is to become our customers’ most valued supplier.  

We achieve this objective by providing products and services that best meet customer needs and doing 
so in a manner that creates a lasting bond of cooperation and trust.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We treat customers fairly and honestly at all times in a manner that conforms to all applicable laws and is 
consistent  with  good  business  practice.  We  do  not  make  false  or  misleading  remarks  about  other 
companies or their employees or products, including our competitors.  

Safe and High-Quality Products  

We conduct business with a high regard for the health and safety of those using our products and services. 
This regard assures safety and strengthens the  bond between STS and our customers. Each employee 
plays  a  critical  role  in  ensuring  the  quality  and  safety  of  STS  products,  from  design  through 
implementation, ongoing improvements, and customer support.  

We Value and Safeguard Our Employee Relationships 

Respect for Employees  

STS is committed to respecting human dignity. Trust, respect, and ethical business conduct are essential 
to achieving and maintaining sound relationships among our employees. Basic to these relationships is 
the recognition of the personal value and contribution of every employee. At STS, we value the diversity 
of  our  employees,  and  we  judge  and  treat  every  employee  with  dignity  and  respect.  Consistent  with 
applicable laws of the location, employees and applicants for employment will be judged on the basis of 
their performance and qualifications without regard to race, creed, gender, religion, national origin, age 
or disability. Sexual harassment of any type is prohibited.  

Child Labour/Forced Labour  

We are opposed to any form of harmful child labour and forced or compulsory labour. It is STS policy to 
prohibit harmful child labour or the use of forced or compulsory labour in our workplaces and we expect 
our suppliers and contractors to do the same.  

Respect for Employees’ Privacy  

STS respects the privacy of its employees, former employees and job applicants and will share employee 
information only for business reasons consistent with applicable law. This is not inconsistent with STS’s 
right to monitor electronic communications.  

Safe and Healthy Working Environment  

Maintaining a safe and healthy work environment is integral to the operation of our business. Accidents 
harm our employees and undermine the effective performance of the business, as well as the trust of the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
communities in which we operate. We are responsible for preventing accidents by maintaining a healthy 
work  environment,  by  following  safe  procedures  and  practices,  and  by  using  all  prescribed  personal 
protective equipment where applicable to our business.  

No Substance Abuse  

We do not use, sell, purchase, transfer, manufacture, possess, or permit to be present in our system any 
illegal  or  unauthorized  drugs,  synthetic/designer  drugs,  or  any  controlled  substance  (except  legally 
prescribed drugs), nor do we abuse prescribed drugs, while on STS premises, engaged in STS business, or 
operating STS equipment.  

In addition, we do not use, sell, manufacture, purchase, transfer or possess alcohol in an STS facility or on 
company  premises.  We  are  not  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  while  performing  STS  business  or  job-
related duties or while operating STS equipment.  

We Comply with Health, Safety, Security, and Environmental Laws 

We  are  committed  to  protecting  the  environment  and  the  health  and  safety  of  our  employees,  our 
families, our communities, and the public through full compliance with all applicable laws and continuous 
improvement of our performance on environmental, health and safety matters.  

To  meet  STS  environmental  standards,  every  STS  owned-and-operated  facility  must  demonstrate 
compliance with all public health and environmental laws pertaining to its operations and consistent with 
applicable law.  

STS’s Policy on Health, Safety, Security, and the Environment  

STS embraces our responsibility to protect the environment and the health, safety and security of our 
employees, their families, our communities, and the public, as a core value of our business sustainability.  

Transparently  promoting  health,  safety,  security,  and  environment  is  the  responsibility  of  all  STS 
employees in the countries in which we operate.  

STS’s health, safety, security, and environment Guiding Principles mandate that we:  

•  Pursue  a  business  strategy  that  builds  on  sustainable  innovation,  operations  and  business 
practices as we seek to grow our businesses and improve the quality of people’s lives everywhere. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Openly conduct our business in a manner that is protective of public and occupational health, the 

environment and employee safety.  

•  Strive to eliminate all accidents and injuries, with an objective of achieving injury-free workplaces.  
•  Comply with all relative laws and regulations.  
•  Actively  engage  with  our  employees,  suppliers,  customers,  neighbours,  and  shareholders  to 

ensure continuous improvement. 

•  Engage in recycling programs where appropriate. 

We Value and Safeguard Our Relationships with Suppliers and Contractors  

We seek to maintain our reputation as a dependable customer by being equitable and reliable in dealings 
with suppliers. We will treat suppliers and contractors fairly and honestly at all times and in a manner 
conforming to all applicable laws.  

We expect our suppliers to share our commitment to sustainability and to producing safe and high-quality 
products.  

We expect our suppliers to conduct themselves in an ethical and responsible manner that supports the 
protection of and respect for human dignity in their workplaces and is consistent with STS’s standards.  

We Protect Our Property and the Property of Others 

We are responsible for the protection of STS assets, including physical property, intangible assets, and all 
forms of electronic documents and files, business communications, including electronic mail, telephone, 
Internet and Intranet, against loss, theft, and misuse. STS assets are intended for use for proper company 
purposes and may not be sold, loaned, given away or disposed of without proper authorization. We may 
make  personal  use  of  such  assets  on  an  occasional  and  limited  basis  only  as  long  as  STS’s  policies  on 
Acceptable  Use  of  IT  Resources  and  other  relevant  policies  are  followed,  there  are  no  measurable 
increased costs and other employees are not distracted as a result of the use. In addition, use of such 
assets for personal gain is prohibited.  

We Use our Electronic Communications and Internet Access for Company Purposes  

STS’s electronic communications and Internet access systems are important tools through which we 
conduct much of our company’s business. These communication mechanisms and devices include e-
mail, fax and instant messaging systems. STS reserves the right to monitor the use of its Internet 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
resources and electronic communications and to investigate potential improprieties. Users have no 
expectation of privacy in their use of STS communications systems beyond that required by law.  

STS reserves the right to filter Internet content that it considers offensive or inappropriate. All use of 
Internet access and electronic communications will be in accordance with applicable laws, regulations 
and STS policies and shall not be used to:  

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

Violate copyright, trade secret, patent or other intellectual property rights.  
Reveal company confidential information via social media networks or otherwise;  
Threaten, deceive, defraud, harass, defame, intimidate or offend others or otherwise violate 
the privacy of any person;  
Attempt to gain illegal access into another computer network or system;  
Create, execute, store or knowingly propagate non-approved files, such as viruses, worms, 
password capturing  programs, Trojan horses, etc.  
Intentionally disrupt or disable STS resources nor prevent other authorized users from using 
these resources;  
Send chain letters, unauthorized solicitations or advertisements;  
Distribute STS business e-mail addresses of other employees for non-business purposes such 
as subscribing to private bulletin boards, shopping sites and any other non-business sites;  
Introduce sexually explicit or offensive materials into the workplace;  
Access pornography, gambling ventures, nonbusiness – related chat rooms or message 
boards; or  
Download files, unless they are necessary for business purposes and approved by the local IT 
department.  

Reporting Loss or Misuse of Property  

Any individual aware of the loss or misuse of any property must report it to his or her manager or 
supervisor or another appropriate STS person or contact the Ethics Office at the numbers and address 
provided. Any individual receiving such reports shall handle them in a careful and thorough manner.  

We Protect STS Confidential Information and Respect the Confidential Information of Others 

What is Confidential Information?  

Confidential information is information that is not generally known to the public and, if improperly 
disclosed, may be harmful to the company or its customers or suppliers, or helpful to its competitors.  

STS possesses valuable confidential information that has been developed over many years at 
considerable expense.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
This information includes proprietary information and trade secrets, such as sales, financial, scientific, 
economic or engineering information, customer lists, marketing plans, technical plans, formulas, 
methods, techniques, processes, procedures, programs and codes – regardless of how such information 
is stored, compiled or memorialized – for which STS takes reasonable measures to keep secret.  

How do we protect Confidential Information?  

We must protect the confidentiality of this information as carefully as we protect STS’s physical and 
other property and should routinely take precautions to keep the information from being disclosed. We 
do not share confidential information with, or authorize its use by Non-STS People or even with STS 
people who do not need to know the information, except as provided in contracts or legally mandated 
non-disclosure agreements.  

The obligation to protect STS’s confidential information continues even after employment at STS ceases. 
If it is appropriate for business reasons to share STS confidential information with a Non-STS Person 
and/or to allow a Non-STS Person to use the confidential information, a written confidentiality 
agreement is required to be executed in advance. STS HR Department can provide an agreement that is 
appropriate for the circumstances or one of STS designated lawyers can be contacted through the HR 
Department. We also keep the information in a secure, non-accessible location and transmit confidential 
information electronically only under secure conditions.  

Our obligation to protect confidential information extends to social media networking. STS employees 
should follow the same procedures for protecting company confidential information when engaging in 
any social networking activities.  

STS will vigorously pursue any suspected improper taking and/or use of its confidential information.  

If we discover a possible theft of STS confidential information, we must bring this discovery to our 
supervisor, the Ethics office or other appropriate person.  

We Gather Business Information Ethically and Lawfully 

As part of the daily execution of our business, we gather intelligence about competitors, suppliers, and 
customers in ethical and lawful ways. Most useful information is available from public sources through 
hard work and persistence. In seeking information from non-public sources, we act with honesty and 
integrity, and we do not seek, obtain, or use any information if it would violate any applicable law, 
including without limitation trade secret or other confidential information laws, and laws relating to 
confidential relationships between employers and employees.  

We protect confidential information provided on a confidential basis by others to STS – usually by 
following procedures described in agreements relating to the information.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We will not improperly take confidential information from others.  Individuals and companies who 
improperly disclose confidential information are subject to lawsuits for damages and injunctions, as well 
as criminal liability under signed Non-Disclosure Agreements, including financial penalties or even prison 
terms.  

We do not accept or misdirect communications or electronic documents not meant for us. Any receipt 
of such communications that appears to be in error and contains proprietary or sensitive information, 
such as a competitor’s marketing plans or client’s requirements should be reported to your supervisor 
and, in the case of electronic communications, to the IT department so that any appropriate action can 
be taken.  

We Avoid Conflicts of Interest 

We shall not engage in any activity that would create a conflict of interest between our personal interests 
(including the interests of our immediate families*) and the best interests of STS. We will make all business 
decisions in the best interests of STS. Any actual or potential conflict of interest between STS and us is 
prohibited unless specifically approved in writing by our supervisor (or in the case of a director, the Board 
of  Directors).  In  determining  the  presence  or  absence  of  a  conflict  of  interest,  the  following  will  be 
considered: the amount of our financial interest; our position with STS and the influence that we may 
have in business dealings that impact the matter; and all other relevant factors.  

Activities that could create a conflict of interest include:  

• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

Engaging in personal or any other Non-STS Business on company time or with company assets;  
self-employment  or  engaging  in  any  other  activity,  if  the  work  or  activity  affects  job 
performance or encroaches on         time or    attention that should be devoted to STS’s affairs;  
Disclosing or using for personal advantage confidential information gained by our position with 
STS.  
Disposing of STS assets for personal benefit. This policy applies both to physical assets – such as 
equipment, cars and trucks, and office supplies – and to services provided or paid for by STS, 
such as Internet access, electronic mail, telephone, fax and the internal mail system.  
Accepting loans or gifts of any kind, preferential treatment, or favours that place or appear to 
place  us or any member of our immediate  family*  under a stated or implied obligation to a 
competitor,  supplier  or  customer  of  STS.  For  example,  we  do  not  make  investments  in 
competitors, suppliers, or customers of any kind if the arrangement is not generally available to 
others or if a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest could arise because 
of our duties and responsibilities. We may accept promotional premiums and discounts offered 
by  transportation  companies,  hotels  and  similar  service  providers  –  such  as,  for  example, 
“frequent fliers” program benefits – if they are offered to travelers generally and STS has not 
specified to the contrary.  

 
 
 
 
  
 
• 

Having a significant investment in or working for or serving as a consultant or advisor to any 
other firm or person (even in a self-employed capacity) if that firm or person is a competitor (or 
actively planning to become one), a supplier or a customer of STS.  

In addition, neither we nor any member of our immediate family* shall accept membership on the board 
of directors of any competitor, supplier of material or services, or customer of STS without prior written 
approval of STS’s Board of Directors.  

If a director has a personal interest in a matter before the Board, the director will disclose the interest to 
the  full  Board  prior  to  discussion  as  to  such  matter  or  deliberation,  excuse  himself  or  herself  from 
participation  in  the  discussion,  and  will  not  vote  on  the  matter.  Personal  interests  may  include 
commercial,  industrial,  banking,  consulting,  legal,  accounting,  charitable  and  financial  relationships, 
among others.  

*For purposes of the Code, “immediate family” means your spouse, parent, children, siblings, mothers- 
and  fathers-in-law,  sons-  and  daughters-in-law,  brothers-  and  sisters-in-law,  and  anyone  (other  than 
domestic  employees)  who  shares  your  home.  This  definition  does  not  apply  to  the  use  of  the  term 
“immediate family” for purposes of medical coverage and other benefit plan purposes.  

Seek Help in Resolving Questions under this Conflict of Interest Policy.  

Conflicts  are  not  always  clear-cut.  If  an  employee,  officer,  or  director  becomes  aware  of  a  conflict, 
potential conflict, or has a question as to a potential conflict, the employee, officer, or director should 
consult with higher levels of management or the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and/or follows the 
procedures for reporting any misconduct.  Sensitive or difficult questions should be  referred to an STS 
lawyer.  

We Comply with Laws and Regulations for Transnational Business 

We operate our business in compliance with all applicable laws. When we make significant business 
investments or acquisitions, we take into account sustainability, compliance and other ethical 
considerations.  

We comply with all Import Control Laws 

It is STS’s policy to comply with all laws and regulations that apply to its imports into any country in 
which we operate and import materials into. In addition to STS Logistics and Accounting Departments; it 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is the responsibility of every business unit to implement and maintain the necessary internal controls for 
import compliance, exercise reasonable care in all import activities and make best efforts to assure 
appropriate personnel understand and comply with all import laws of the relative country.  

Import laws govern many aspects of our imports, including admissibility of imports, classification and 
valuation for duty purposes, country of origin marking, environmental reporting, security, eligibility for 
special preference programs (e.g., Security clearance on some communication devices by the Local 
Telecommunication Regulatory Commission or by the US Customs Security Clearance), and records 
retention.  

STS is committed to strict compliance with all import laws and regulations and expects all employees to 
implement this commitment in STS’s business operations. Implementation will be achieved through 
organizational commitment, allocation of sufficient human and capital resources, and appropriate 
oversight and corrective actions.  

STS is also committed to all aspects of its Vendors and Suppliers who are mandated by their country’s 
Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, under which STS has committed to ensure the safety and 
security of all imports from the point of origin to the point of final destination and to corresponding 
programs in other jurisdictions.  

We Comply with All Export Control Laws 

Many of STS Vendors, Partners and Suppliers are originating from The United States and are mandated 
to comply with laws and regulations that restrict exports of certain products, services, and technologies 
to certain countries or buyers (Boycott).  STS honors these Vendors boycotts and will ensure that the 
items they import from the vendors are lawfully exported and are sold to the country and individual to 
whom they are intended.  

In practice, the boycott that most commonly presents problems is the Secondary boycott where a 
dealing with a company that deals with a boycott country is in question.  For STS own generated 
products or Services; we do not participate in or Comply with Secondary Boycotts that are against the 
Local Government’s Policy, Including the US or the EU Boycott of some Arab Countries or Middle Eastern 
Countries.  We also do not comply with Secondary Boycott of dealing with companies that deal with a 
direct boycott country of our Vendors. 

The laws governing foreign boycotts are complex, and requests for compliance with a foreign boycott or 
certification of compliance must be reported even if compliance with the foreign boycott is permitted by 
law.  

To comply with these laws, every group, division, and operation must Ensure that international sales, 
order entry, traffic, documentation, and credit personnel – who are likely to come in contact with 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
requests for compliance with foreign boycotts – are instructed about how to comply with these laws and 
that they follow STS’s procedures relating to these laws.  

We Do Not Pay Bribes or Make Improper Payments 

STS funds shall not be used to make payments that violate any applicable laws or regulations. While this 
policy summarizes the most commonly applied laws and regulations, they can be ambiguous or difficult 
to interpret. If you are uncertain about any payment, consult your manager or an STS lawyer.  

We Do Not Engage in Commercial Bribery 

We do not pay bribes, kickbacks, or similar payments or gratuities to people or organizations in order to 
gain or keep business or to direct business to any other person or company. This policy applies both to 
payments made directly and to payments made through an intermediary.  

We Do Not Pay Bribes or Kickbacks to Government Agencies, Employees, or Officials  

We do not directly or indirectly offer or give any money, gift, favour, entertainment, loan, gratuity, or 
other item of value to any employee of any government that regulates or does business with STS. As 
long as there is no violation of the rules or standards of conduct of STS or the recipient’s organization, 
employees of STS businesses doing business with or regulated by the local government agencies are 
permitted to provide meals and refreshments that are reasonable and directly related to business 
discussions. We do not make any direct or indirect payments – including STS funds, personal funds or 
anything else of value – to any government official, employee, political party or candidate of any country 
in order:  

     • To obtain or retain business for STS or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates; or  

     • To direct business to any other person.  

We also do not authorize such payments to be made through a third person if we know or are 
substantially certain that any portion of the payment will be used to pay a government official or 
employee, or political party or candidate.  

STS does not operate in any countries in which bribery of government or political officials is lawful. In 
addition, Jordan for example and some other countries have enacted laws making bribery of 
government officials a crime. At STS, we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In particular, we 
do not engage in violations of foreign law even if local business practices seem to ignore the law. Even 
when they are not intended to obtain, retain, or direct business, we do not provide gifts and 
entertainment to government officials and employees of any country beyond the extent to which they 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are extended by normal custom in the relevant country. The value of such gifts or entertainment should 
not exceed US$100 per person without the prior approval of management.  

We Use Special Care in Appointing Sales Representatives, Distributors, and Consultants 

Commission or fee arrangements may be made only with firms or persons serving as bona fide 
commercial sales representatives, distributors, or consultants (jointly “representatives”). These 
arrangements may not be entered into with any firm in which a government official or employee is 
known or believed to have an interest if STS conducts or may seek to conduct business with the 
government agency to which the official or employee is connected. All business units must investigate 
the character and reputation of each proposed representative to determine their appropriateness prior 
to the engagement.  

We pay our representatives by above-board means. Payments must never be made in cash, and they 
must be made to the representative’s business office in the country in which it is located (and not to a 
foreign office or foreign bank account).  

All commission and fee arrangements with representatives shall be covered by a written agreement. The 
agreement must contain, in addition to other normal terms and conditions:  

• 
• 

• 

A clear description of the services to be provided;  
The commitment by the representative to abide by applicable law, including a representation that 
no prohibited payments have been or will be made or promised; and  
A statement that STS may be required to disclose the existence and terms and conditions of the 
contract to authorized governmental agencies.  

The amount of commission or fee to be paid to a representative for assistance in securing orders and for 
after-sales service must be reasonable in light of normal practice for the industry, the line of products 
involved, and the commercial services to be rendered. Sales representative and distributor agreements 
are available from STS lawyers.  

We Respect the Political Process and Comply with Laws Governing Political Contributions 

We comply fully with all laws regulating corporate and employee participation in public affairs, subject 
to the procedures set out below. STS encourages employees to exercise their rights and assume their 
obligations as citizens.  

Where applicable law permits corporations to make contributions to candidates for public office, such 
contributions must receive prior written approval from the Board of Directors.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These requirements pertain only to political contributions to be made with STS corporate funds. They do 
not restrict personal decisions by STS employees to make lawful personal contributions on their own. 
STS encourages this type of participation. Employees must not, however, be reimbursed by expense 
accounts or otherwise for such personal contributions.  

In some countries, political contributions by STS or its subsidiaries can be authorized only when 
permitted by applicable law, after prior written approval by the Board of Directors.  

We Deal Lawfully and Fairly in Government Procurement 

We conduct business with the governments of the countries in which we operate in accordance with 
high ethical standards. We recognize a special obligation to safeguard and preserve the good will and 
trust of those governments, their customers, and their taxpayers. Although fundamental principles of 
honesty are constants in all of STS’s businesses, a business that serves governments has additional 
requirements regarding the appearance and documentation of fairness and integrity.  

In addition to complying with applicable law and with the Code, we vigorously seek to control costs in 
accordance with local government procurement standards and regulations to obtain items for 
government contracts of appropriate quality at the best possible price.  

We Keep Accurate Company Records, Make Full, Fair, Accurate and Timely Disclosures 

We make full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosures in reports that STS files under 
applicable laws, rules and regulations and in other public communications. Dishonest reporting, both 
inside and outside the company will not be tolerated. This includes reporting or organizing information 
in an attempt to mislead or misinform. No entry will be made on the company’s books and records that 
intentionally hides or disguises the true nature of any transaction.  

STS has adopted controls to ensure the safeguarding of STS assets and the accuracy of its financial 
records and reports in accordance with internal needs and requirements of applicable laws and 
regulations. These established accounting practices and procedures must be followed to assure the 
complete and accurate recording of all transactions. All employees, within their area of responsibility, 
are expected to adhere to these procedures, as directed by the appropriate STS Manager.  

No employee or director may interfere with or seek to improperly influence, directly or indirectly, the 
auditing of STS’s financial records. Violation of these provisions shall result in disciplinary action up to 
and including termination and may also subject the violator to substantial civil and criminal liability.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an employee becomes aware of any improper transaction or accounting practice, he or she must 
immediately report the matter as described in Section 4 of this Code.  

Our obligation to record and report information accurately and honestly also applies to the accurate 
reporting of time worked, business expenses incurred and other business-related activities.  

We Manage Our Records Properly 

To operate effectively and efficiently, records must be managed properly. Documents needed for 
ongoing business or required by law must be retained, while all other documents should be discarded. If 
excess records are not discarded, the costs and distraction of records maintenance escalates continually.  

Documents should be discarded on an ongoing basis as they are no longer needed, and a general review 
of documents as to whether they are still needed is to be conducted at least once per year. In general, 
no document should be retained for more than two years unless it is needed for ongoing business or a 
law requires its retention.  

Those who are unsure about the need to keep particular documents should consult with their records 
administrator or supervisor, so that a judgment can be made as to the likelihood that the documents 
will be needed.  

Reporting and Information Resources 

You are required to promptly and accurately report any violations of the Code that come to your 
attention to your manager, Ethics Office, human resources manager or a member of the Board of 
Directors. If you are uncomfortable reporting a violation to these individuals or wish to report a violation 
anonymously, write to:  

STS Ethics Office  

Ms. Rasha I. Atallah 

Tel: ++96265802626 ext. 1110 

Shaban’s Building 

Amman, Jordan – 11195 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Or: STS Ethics Response Line: ++962795767989 

Or: STS Ethics Email: ethics@sts.com.jo 

You may do so without fear of retaliation.  

If you have any questions or doubt about any aspect of the Code, consult your STS Manager or the STS 
Ethics Office or another appropriate STS person.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS Policies Manual 

Office Environment/Equipment/Facilities 

V1 - 2019 

 
 
 
 
CHAPTER  12: OFFICE ENVIRONMENT/EQUIPMENT/FACILITIES 

12  OFFICE ENVIRONMENT/EQUIPMENT/FACILITIES 

A  WORK AREA 

1. 

It  is  Company  policy  to  furnish  a  safe  working  place  for  the  employees,  and  keep  them  out  of  danger.  
Employees are expected to follow the rules and safety regulations within the work place. 

2.  Employees should be considerate of others and maintain quiet and orderly working conditions.  All desks and 
work areas should be kept in good order.  When leaving the office at the end of the day or on an assignment, 
all documentation should be secured in a safe, filing cabinet or other appropriate place.  Items used during 
the day should be returned to their proper places or disposed of appropriately.  Extra items supplied should 
be returned to the designated area. 

B 

COMPANY ASSETS 

1.  Employees should safeguard Company assets and use them appropriately; otherwise the Company will take 

disciplinary action. 

2.  Company assets, stationary, computers or software, should not be taken home without prior approval from 

the employee’s Manager.  Otherwise, the employee will be disciplined or terminated. 

3.  Any Company assets given to employees to use during employment, should be given back to the Company 

upon service termination or whenever asked to. 

4. 

If  an  employee is  responsible for Company keys, he/she should ensure the  safety of them, and  use them 
properly and inform their Manager within 24 hours in case of loss.  They should inform the administration in 
writing. 

C 

PERSONAL PROPERTY 

1.  Employees are responsible for safeguarding their personal effects in the office or while on assignment.  The 

Company does not accept responsibility for the loss of personal effects, including cash. 

D 

ELECTRONIC MAIL PRIVACY 

1.  The electronic mail system, training materials, notices and related documentation are the property of STS 
and are intended for business use only.  Authorized personnel other than the sender or addressee may not 
access electronic mail messages.  Reading mail messages by authorized personnel should be limited to need.  
Access  to  Web  chats,  personal  messaging  and  personal  web  sites  are  prohibited  during  Company  time. 
Employees who violate this policy are subject to disciplinary action, including dismissal. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E 

FAXES AND MAILS 

1.  Employees should use the most cost-effective way of sending business information.  Electronic mail should 

be the first choice for inter-office delivery unless other factors require the use of fax or courier. 

2.  Fax machines cannot be used for personal use without prior permission. 

F 

SUPPLIES 

1.  An assortment of frequently used office supplies, such as paper, pencil, pens, erasers, etc., is available in the 
storeroom.  All new employees are given basic office supplies upon starting work.  Any supplies not usually 
stocked should be requested from the Human Resources Department before being ordered. 

G 

PHOTOCOPIERS 

1.  Office photocopiers should not be used for personal photocopying materials without prior permission. 

H 

COMPUTERS 

1.  Use of the computer system is provided for business purposes only.  Prior permission is required for personal 

use. 

2.  The security and safety of STS office equipment is of utmost importance and employees are required to keep 
equipment and facilities safe at all times.  Never give information to anyone regarding office access who is 
not an authorized STS user. 

3.  Laptop computers must be put away in a locked cabinet at the end of each day, or carried home.  Employees 

will be held personally responsible for the loss of a computer assigned to him/her. 

I 

REPORTING THEFT OR LOSS OF PROPERTY 

1.  Upon discovering a loss, the department or employee concerned, should contact the administration team in 
their relevant locations to verify insurance coverage and to request instructions to file an insurance claim, if 
applicable.  Nothing should be replaced without prior approval of Management. 

J 

PERSONAL TELEPHONE CALLS 

1. 

It  is  appreciated  that  everyone  needs  to  make  an  occasional  personal  telephone  call  but  STS  requests 
employees not to abuse this privilege.  Keep personal calls to a minimum and keep them brief. 

K 

INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE CALLS 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  The nature of work may include international phone calls related to work only.  This service cannot be used 
for personal reasons.  In case of proven misuse, the employee involved will have a written warning and the 
amount deducted from his/her salary. 

L 

SMOKING 

1.  This policy applies equally to regular nicotine as well as electronic cigarettes of all kinds.  Smoking inside 
the office is not permitted at any time.  Employees who wish to smoke can do so outside the office or in the 
designated smoking area.  It is important to be considerate towards the non-smokers and realize the harmful 
effect nicotine and e-cigarettes have on the health of all employees.  Employees caught smoking inside the 
building except in the designated smoking area will be subject to disciplinary measures. 

M 

LIFTING OF HEAVY OBJECTS 

1. 

If an employee’s job requires them to lift heavy objects, they should be aware of methods and precautions 
to be followed.   An employee should never lift heavy objects exceeding his/her ability – ask for help,  the 
Company  always  encourages  this.    In  case  of  injury,  the  employee must  inform  his/her  Manager  and  HR 
immediately. 

N 

CHEMCIAL MATERIAL 

1. 

If the nature of the  employee’s job  requires them to handle  chemical material such  as solvents, cleaning 
products, gaseous substances or any oil by-product, he/she must make sure they know how to use them, 
wash their hands after use and always wear protective gloves before using such material. 

O 

CAR PARK 

1.  STS  has  limited  parking  spots  in  each  location  and  so  cannot  assign  designated  parking  spots  for  each 
employee  at  STS.      Those  spots  are  assigned  to  individuals  based  on  seniority  and/or  length  of  service.  
Wherever possible, STS tries to provide alternatives to parking as much as it possibly can. However, where 
reserved and designated parking are not available, it is left to STS employees to secure their own parking.  

2. 

In Jordan, Management and some company employees have designated parking areas.  Basement car parking 
area  is  designated  to  employees  whose  ranks  start  from  E  and  above.  Parking  spots  are  granted  to  the 
employee based  on  years of  experience at STS; those who have  been with the company longer have the 
priority to being assigned a parking space. Another parking-lot next to STS building in Amman is designated 
to all staff members and renting a spot costs 10 JOD per month.   

P 

PERSONAL MATTERS 

1.  Time off is given to take care of a personal matter, but this should be preceded by submitting a leave on the 

MenaMe system and should not have a negative effect on the employee’s work. 

Q 

PERSONAL POSSESSIONS 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Money, clothes, and all valuables should be kept in safe places, where they will not get damaged or stolen.  If 
an employee loses something while on Company premises or in Company vehicles, they should inform his/her 
Manager.   They will try to find  it.   If an  employee finds  something that does not belong to him/her, they 
should report it to their Manager.  The Company is not held responsible for the loss of personal possessions. 

R 

PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS AND INFORMATION 

1.  An employee has no right to make any declaration on behalf of the Company without prior approval from 

their direct supervisor or Business Unit Manager. 

S 

MOBILE VENDORS 

1. 

It is totally prohibited to collect money using the Company name, or to sell or send or distribute bills or reports 
on  Company assets.    This  is  to  avoid  deliberate or un-deliberate  involvement in  Company  interests.   Any 
employee engaging in such acts will be subject to disciplinary procedures.  The Company, as a general rule, 
does not limit under any situation, or infringe on the right to freedom of speech or expression of opinion.  
Such actions are allowed during break time as long as it is not in contradiction with the general acceptable 
code of conduct and rules and regulations of the Company.  Any person – not an employee of the Company 
– is strictly prohibited from collecting money, selling or sending  or distributing bills  or publications within 
Company premises under any conditions or circumstances. 

T 

PURCHASING 

1. 

In case of a need to buy things related to work, employees should submit a purchase order to his/her Manager 
to obtain the necessary permission by submitting a purchase order using TWE for purchases in Jordan.  

2. 

In  countries  where  the  online  purchasing  tool  doesn’t  exist.  Employees  are  expected  to  inform  HR  or 
Accounting (in locations where there is no dedicated HR person) to make the purchase order.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS Policies Manual 

Information Security Disciplinary Process 

V1 - 2020 

 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 30: INFORMATION SECURITY DISCIPLINARY PROCESS 

INTRODUCTION 

This disciplinary process is intended for use if an information security breach has occurred. Before following this 
procedure, a full investigation should be carried out to establish the facts of the breach and to ensure that any 
disciplinary action is justified. This investigation must be documented. 

It is intended that this process will ensure fair and proportionate treatment of employees and will consider the 
following factors: 

•  The nature of the breach 
•  The effect of the breach on the organization 
•  The clarity of the procedures involved 
•  The amount and quality of the training received by the employee 
•  Whether the employee has committed a security breach before 
•  Any relevant legal factors 

This control applies to all employees of the organization, particularly those who will have access to STS IT systems.  

EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINARY PROCESS 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES 

The following general principles apply to the disciplinary process set out in this document: 

•  The disciplinary process will, where possible, be carried out by the Direct Manager of the employee 

concerned 

•  The process will allow for proportionate action depending on the severity of the information security 

breach 

•  The process will allow for graduated action in the event of repeated breaches by the same individual 
•  The process will be carried out in a timely manner in accordance with business needs 
•  A fair hearing of both sides will be allowed and meetings will be held at times and in locations that do not 

unreasonably favour either party 

•  The employee will have the right to appeal at each stage of the process 
•  The details of the breach and the progress of the disciplinary process will be documented by the 

organization and will be regarded as confidential 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROCESS OVERVIEW 

The diagram below shows an overview of the steps of the process. 

PROCESS STEPS 

Information Security Breach 

The process is initiated by the detection of an information security breach. This may be a relatively minor event 
such as the unauthorized use of someone else’s user account or something more major such as the deliberate theft 
of confidential information. The handling of the breach itself will be according to the procedures set out in the 
Information Security Incident Response Procedure. 

Investigation 

At an appropriate time after the information security breach has occurred, an investigation will be carried out by an 
appropriately trained and experienced person to establish: 

•  The circumstances of the breach, including date, time, sequence of events, information and systems 

affected 

•  The root cause of the breach 
•  The immediate effect of the breach on the organization 
•  Whether existing policies and procedures were followed 
• 

If not, then whether the breach would have been avoided if existing policies and procedures had been 
followed 

•  The individuals involved 

The results and conclusions of the investigation will be documented. The details of the investigation are outside the 
scope of this document. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Management Assessment 

If the investigation concludes that there may be a case for disciplinary action against one or more individuals, an 
assessment will be carried out by top management to decide on the next steps. The participants in this assessment 
should include: 

•  The individual’s Direct Manager 
•  The head of the department in which the individual is employed 
•  A representative from Human Resources 
•  The Information Security Manager 
•  A representative from the legal department, if appropriate 
•  The person primarily responsible for the investigation 

The individual employee may be requested to participate in parts of the assessment if appropriate. Minutes of the 
assessment meeting(s) will be taken. In some circumstances it may be appropriate to suspend the employee whilst 
the management assessment is taking place. 
The outcome of the management assessment will be a decision regarding which of the following actions to take: 

•  No disciplinary action 
•  Verbal warning 
•  Written warning 
•  Dismissal 

The action should be communicated to the employee by the employee’s Direct Manager if possible. 

NO DISCIPLINARY ACTION 

If the breach is not felt to be sufficiently serious to warrant disciplinary action then other steps may be taken to 
prevent a recurrence such as informal advice, training, coaching and counselling. This may be done in conjunction 
with an informal verbal warning which will not be recorded on the employee’s file. 

VERBAL WARNING 

If there is felt to be enough cause for formal disciplinary action but the circumstances are relatively minor and/or it 
is the first time it has happened, then a verbal warning may be given. A note of this warning will be placed in the 
employee’s file but will be disregarded after 12 months from the date of the warning. 

The employee has the right to appeal against a verbal warning. 

WRITTEN WARNING 

For more serious breaches or repeated breaches for which a verbal warning has previously been issued, a written 
warning may be given. This will specify the reason for the warning, the improvement that is required and will 
specify a timeframe for that improvement. A review should be held at the end of that timeframe to assess whether 
the required improvement has happened. If it has not, then further disciplinary action such as a final written 
warning or dismissal may result. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
The written warning will be placed in the employee’s file but will be disregarded after 1 year from the date of the 
warning.  

The employee has the right to appeal against a written warning. 

DISMISSAL 

In the case of a serious single breach or repeated breaches for which warnings have previously been issued, it may 
be decided that dismissal is likely to be the most appropriate action. This may also be the case if it is judged that 
behavior amounting to gross misconduct has occurred. 

In these circumstances the case against the employee should be set out in writing and copies of any relevant 
evidence provided to the individual concerned. A formal hearing will then be held to give the employee an 
opportunity to respond. 

After the hearing the employee’s manager will inform the employee of the final decision which will also be provided 
in writing. 

The employee has the right to appeal against dismissal. 

APPEAL 

If the employee wishes to exercise a right to appeal this must be notified in writing to the Direct Manager within 
two weeks of the disciplinary decision. 

An appeal hearing will be held which will be chaired by a senior manager not previously involved in the disciplinary 
process. The result of the appeal will be communicated to the employee in writing. No further appeals will be 
permitted. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS Policies Manual 

Safety and Security 

V1 ‐ 2017 

 
 
 
 
CHAPTER  13: Safety and Security 

13 

SECURITY  

As the number of STS employees is growing, managing the safety security of STS employees, properties and 
premises is imperative and something management takes very seriously. 

A 

SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM CAMERA POLICY 

STS recognizes the need to maintain a balance between the individual’s right to be free from invasion of privacy and 
the company’s duty to promote a safe environment for all staff members. 

The purpose of video surveillance in the company is to:  

1.  Promote a safe environment by deterring acts of harassment or assault.  
2.  Deter theft  and  vandalism  and  assist  in  the  identification  of individuals  who commit  damage  to company 

property.  

3.  Assist law enforcement agencies with regard to the investigation of any crime that may be depicted.  
4.  Vigilance the daily operation and Increase employee productivity. 

At no time will persons other than those designated by the Administration, Procurement & Logistics Manager have 
access to the monitors or to the recordings made in the course of the surveillance. Personal information contained 
on the recordings shall not be used or disclosed for purposes other than those for which it was collected, except with 
the consent of the individual or as required by law. 

The focus of cameras used in video surveillance in STS premises will not cover areas where there is an expectation of 
privacy. 

B 

EMERGENCY PROCEDURES 

1. 

If an employee observes a fire, smoke, toxic fumes or explosion, they should activate the nearest fire alarm 
by breaking the glass.  Fire extinguishers are placed in specific locations inside the Company.  An employee 
should get to know where they are placed and how to use them.  Dial 199 in case of a fire, notify colleagues 
and  leave  the building  immediately.    Key operational  personnel  should  be on alert  to activate evacuation 
procedures. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 

In  the  case  of  a  bomb  threat,  carefully  note  all  information  the  caller  gives  and  immediately  contact  the 
Management.  Anyone who notes a suspicious object, package, etc. during evacuation should report it to the 
authorities or Security.  DO NOT TOUCH OR TAMPER WITH ANY SUSPICIOUS OBJECT, PACKAGE, ETC. 

3.  The  accident  reporting  system  requirements  apply  to  all  incidences  involving  personal  injury,  illness  and 
property/vehicle  damage.    Serious  injury  or  illness  posing  a  life‐threatening  situation  shall  be  reported 
immediately  to  the  employee’s  Manager  and  to  the  local  emergency  response  medical  services.    The 
Company  should  be  informed  within  24  hours  in  order  to  take  the  necessary  measures  and  prepare  the 
required documents. 

4.  EMPLOYEES SHOULD ONLY PROVIDE FIRST AID IF IT IS WITHIN THEIR ABILITY TO DO SO. 

5.  Upon notification of an occupational injury or illness, the department supervisor should complete an Incident 
Report  and  forward  it  to  the  Human  Resources  Department  so  a  medical/insurance  claim  can  be  filed  if 
necessary. 

 
 
 
  
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Employee Discipline 

V1-2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 17: EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE 

DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES 

•  The Management expects its employees to perform their duties to the best of their ability and to 
conduct themselves both in and out of work in a manner, which would reflect upon and enhance 
the Company’s image/reputation. 

•  All  employees  are  expected  to  respect  the  authority  of  their  Managers  and  observe  the 

regulations governing their conduct. 

•  STS  is  an  equal  opportunities  employer;  any  disciplinary  matter  will  be  dealt  with  quickly, 
equitably and confidentially and will ensure a fair and consistent treatment for all personnel. 

LEVEL OF AUTHORITY 

•  Maintenance of disciplinary hierarchy is essential to the smooth functioning of the Company and 
those in charge are expected to deal with routine disciplinary matters without referring it to the 
Human  Resources  Department.    Certain  cases  may  need  the  intervention  of  higher  levels  of 
authority and matters suggesting  dishonesty, immorality or other acts  which might  lead to an 
employee’s dismissal must be referred to Management.  

•  The level at which the disciplinary chain commences will depend upon the rank of the employee. 

• 

  For working purposes, it may be assumed that a decision Management is final. 

UNACCEPTABLE BEHAVIOUR 

It  is  expected  that  the  employee  will  adhere  to  the  acceptable  limits  in  his/her  behaviour  and 
performance.  It is difficult to make a list of all the unacceptable behaviour that may cause the Company 
to  take  measures  against  the  employee.    The  following  are  some  examples  of  what  is  considered 
unacceptable behaviour that may lead to disciplinary action or termination of service: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Theft, or unauthorized taking, removal of Company/others’ assets. 
The misuse of Company assets. 
Failure to inform about any accident during the use of Company vehicles. 
Sexual harassment among employees/clients or any other person. 
Unacceptable behaviour towards others. 
Unprofessional conduct / performance of duties 
Repeated absence, or late arrival to the work place. 
Arguments with clients and discussions of subjects not related to work. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VIOLENCE IN THE WORKPLACE 

1.  The Company’s security policy divides violence into two kinds: 

•  Violence resulting from confronting clients or people dealing with the Company. 
•  Engaging in violent acts with a colleague (present or past), or Manager or any other person 

who has a relationship with the Company. 

2.  The  Company  is  committed  to  a  strict  policy  against  violence  in  the  workplace  and  between 
colleagues.  This may result in the termination of the person involved who may be prosecuted. 

PROCEDURE 

•  The penalties are applied to each employee who breaks the rules and regulations or violates the 
duties and responsibilities of his/her job, according to the penal code and regulations mentioned 
in the internal bylaw. 

•  No disciplinary action can be taken against an employee for an offence he/she has committed 
after  the  passage  a  certain  period  of  time  as  set  in  the  local  labour  laws  of  the  country  of 
operation.   

• 

It is taken into consideration that the monetary charges imposed on the employee should be in 
line with the limits set in the local labour laws of the country of operation.  

•  The employee is given the chance to defend himself/herself before enforcing the penalty.  This 

should be documented. 

•  The employee has the right to appeal the penalty forced on him/her to his/her manager within a 

period of time as set in the local labour laws of the country of operation. 

•  All warnings must be issued by the HR Department.  Any supervisor wishing to give a warning to 
one of their team members must inform the HR Department of the case and ask them to issue 
the warning.  This is to ensure that all procedures and penalties are legal and in line with company 
policy. 

• 

 Warnings may expire after the passage of a certain period of time.  The exact period of time for 
each location differs depending on the local labour laws of the country of operation.  

•  An employee may be terminated after receiving warnings so long as the termination is in line with 

the local labour laws of the country of operation.   

•  The charges issued according to violations of this list, will be documented in a special register 
showing the name of employee, their job title and reasons for the charge taken against him/her.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The money collected from the charges, if any, will be used according to the directions of the local 
labour laws of the country of operation.  If the local labour laws don’t outline directions for the 
use  of  money  collected,  then  the  money  will  be  used  for  social  services/activities  for  the 
employees. 

• 

 In addition to the penalties listed, the Management has the right to: 

1.  Deduct from an employee’s salary the amount of money to cover the cost of lost/damaged items, 
or cost to fix them, on condition the amount will not exceed the total salary for five days/month; 
and  only  if  it  is  proved  the  damage  was  caused  by  employee  mistake  or  acting  contrary  to 
Management directives as long as this does not contradict local labour laws.  

2.  The Company reserves the  right  to seek legal advice in order to obtain compensation for any 

damage caused by an employee. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Employee Conduct 

V1-2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 4: EMPLOYEE CONDUCT 

CONFIDENTIALITY  

Confidential information is defined as, but not limited to, all documents related to work, such as, names, 
addresses,  client  lists  and  client  requirements,  employee  data,  research  and  development  data, 
inventions, technical and equipment data, computers and electronic communication, Company work both 
past, present and future. 

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS 

•  Employees may not disclose to anyone outside the Company any confidential client information 
or  confidential  third-party  information  obtained  in  connection  with  any  project,  unless  the 
disclosure is authorized by the client or third party. 

• 

It is strictly forbidden to take outside the office any information or knowledge-based resources, 
or client-specific information, whether in hard copy documents or magnetic media unless written 
approval of the Manager in charge of the project has been obtained. 

•  Under no circumstances should an employee use confidential information for personal gain or 

advantage. 

•  These requirements apply even after an employee has left the Company.  All copies of confidential 
materials, in whatever form, should be returned to the Company upon an employee’s departure. 

•  All STS staff new recruits and/or old staff are required to sign a Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA).   

EMPLOYEE RIGHTS 

All information and personal documents pertaining to the employee such as salary, ID, Medical insurance 
etc.  is  confidential  and  no  one  is  permitted  to  access  it  without  the  prior  approval  of  the  employee 
concerned.  If it was proved that an employee has leaked such information either verbally or in writing, 
he/she will be subjected to punitive procedures the least of which is a written warning.  This information 
is confidential even to the employees’ direct supervisor unless it is related to or affects the employees’ 
performance on the job. 

NON-COMPETE CLAUSE 

STS employees are legally committed by contract not to work  directly or indirectly with/for any of STS’s 
competitors  for  a  specified  duration  starting  the  moment  they  leave  STS  regardless  of  the  reason  of 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
departure. Duration is set according to local labour laws and if an employee violates this condition, then 
he/she shall be obligated to pay STS a compensation as stated in the employee’s contract, without the 
need for notice or warning and without the need of providing evidence for any damages and/or losses. 
Term is included in the employment contract.  

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 

• 

• 

Intellectual  property  means  any  invention,  discovery,  improvement,  copyrightable  work, 
integrated  circuit  mask  work,  trademark,  trade  secret,  and  licensable  know-how  and  related 
rights.  Intellectual property includes, but is not limited to, individual or multimedia works of art 
or  music,  records  of  confidential  information  generated  or  maintained  by  STS,  data,  texts, 
instructional materials, tests, bibliographies, research findings, and theses. 

Intellectual property may exist in a written or electronic form, may be raw or derived, and may 
be in the form of text, multimedia, computer programs, spreadsheets, formatted fields in records 
or forms within files, databases, graphics, digital images, video and audio recordings, live video or 
audio broadcasts, performances, two or three-dimensional works of art, musical compositions, 
executions of processes, film, film strips, slides, charts, transparencies, other visual/aural aids or 
CD-ROMS. 

•  All programs, designs, inventions done by employees during their employment with the Company, 

are considered STS owned. 

PERSONNEL RECORDS AND RECORDS RELEASE 

•  STS’  HR  Department  maintains  personnel  files/records  on  the  system  for  all  employees  and 
former  employees.    These  records  are  considered  confidential,  and  information  may  not  be 
released except by authorized employees in the Human Resources Department or the Finance 
and Administration departments in offices where there is no HR.  

•  A personnel file/Record on the system can contain the following information: 

Interview Feedback, English & Technical Tests  

1.  Previous Experience letters and Certificates  
2.  Employee’s Resume  
3. 
4.  Signed employee offer and contract 
5.  Signed NDA 
6.  Tax Application Template 
7.  Employee Information form 
8.  Discipline-related documents 
9.  Work permit (non-Jordanians) 
10. Bank Letters 
11. Life and medical Insurance Applications 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Personnel files are the property of STS.  Personnel information is confidential and is only released 
to those individuals who have a legitimate reason to review the information.  Examples include: 

1.  STS Management. 
2.  STS or state-appointed auditors. 
3.  External organizations, e.g., financial institutions, IRS etc (at the request of the employee). 
4. 

In  response  to  a  request  from  an  external  organization,  having  first  obtained  written 
permission from the employee. 

• 

It is the responsibility of the employee to notify the Human Resources Department of any changes 
in  personal  circumstances  (e.g.,  name  of  beneficiary,  emergency  contacts,  contact  telephone 
number, educational qualifications, marriage, etc). 

WORKPLACE CONDUCT 

This policy relates to how STS employees conduct themselves in the workplace and addresses issues such 
as alcohol and drug abuse, illegal activities, relationships with others. 

BEHAVIOUR AND DRESS CODE 

•  An  employee’s  appearance,  professional  conduct,  actions,  and  impressions  during  and  after 
working hours are important not only to his/her advancement, but to the continuing development 
of  the  Company.    STS  requires  that  every  employee maintain  a  standard  of  good  taste,  good 
judgment,  and  moderation  at  all  times.    Each  employee  is  responsible  for  exercising  good 
judgment and good taste in the interpretation of these guidelines and presenting a professional 
image. 

•  The dress code may vary with the type of duty;  however, “Business Casual” is appropriate for 

every day in the office. This code requires the following: 

1.  Styles should be classic, with nothing too trendy or offensive. 
2.  Avoid sneakers (sport shoes) and slippers.  
3. 

If you have an appointment outside of the office or during workshops, a suit and tie 
must be worn unless it is extremely hot, then a shirt and tie are acceptable. Blazers 
and suit jackets must be seasonally correct.   
4.  Hair should be clean-cut and carefully styled.  
5.  Clothes with written insulting or offensive words, or drawings, symbols or illustrations are not 

allowed. 

6.  Staff should not use strong fragrances (perfumes and sprays), which may cause problems to 

other staff in the office.  

7.  You cannot wear jeans or T-shirts except on Thursdays. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Shoes must be worn during working hours, they cannot be taken off while sitting in the office 

or walking around.  

• 

 Female employees are expected to wear skirts on or below the knee, pressed trousers and a shirt 
or blouse (not too revealing nor too tight). They need to keep their hair neat and in a decent 
looking style. One cannot wear slippers to work (unless under treatment or for medical reasons). 

•  Male  employees are  expected to  wear pants,  business  shirts  (long-sleeved when  the  weather 
permits) and they need to keep their hair and beard short and clean or cut in a decent style. One 
cannot wear slippers or sandals to work (unless under treatment or for medical reasons). 

ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE 

The inappropriate use of alcohol or drugs reflects unfavourably on an employee and on STS.  Under no 
circumstances  should  an  STS  employee  be  under  the  influence  of  alcohol,  drugs,  or  other  controlled 
substances in the workplace or in any setting where he/she can be associated with the Company.  This 
includes the office, a client’s premises, a training facility, or any other setting where an employee may 
interact with other employees, clients, or prospective clients.  Possession or involvement with alcohol, 
drugs  and  other  controlled substances  is  prohibited  and  may  provide  the  basis  for  disciplinary  action 
including dismissal. 

ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES 

Engaging in illegal activities of any sort will provide the basis for disciplinary action including dismissal. 

RELATIONSHIPS WITH CLIENTS 

Employees may not ask for or accept any gift or favour for themselves, or for a person or organization 
affected  by  the  performance  of  their  duties,  or  when  a  gift  or  favour  is  offered  with  the  hope  or 
expectation  of  obtaining  advantage  or  preference  in  dealing  with  the  Company  for  any  purpose.  
Exceptions are made for gifts of minimal value such as calendars, coffee mugs, and inexpensive pens.  In 
addition, employees may not accept discounts or special terms on purchases of goods or services from a 
client  unless  the  discount  or  special  term  is  available  to  the  general  public  or  has  been  negotiated 
specifically  by  STS  for  its  employees.   If  in  doubt  about  accepting  a  gift,  employees should  notify  the 
Human Resources Department who will advise them whether the gift may be accepted. 

WORKING AT CLIENT LOCATION  

STS expects employees, when working at client locations, to conduct themselves accordingly and follow 
these guidelines. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A 

REPORTING LOCATION  

Employees are expected to keep the Company informed of their whereabouts during a client assignment. 

B 

CONFORMING TO OFFICE REGULATIONS  

When  in  a  client’s  office,  STS  employees  should  conform  to  the  client’s  office  regulations  regarding 
smoking,  appearance,  use  of  office  facilities,  office  hours,  lunch  hours  and  other  matters.    When  the 
client’s work week varies from that of STS, the matter should be discussed with the STS Project Manager. 

C 

ESTABLISHING TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION  

When an assignment in a client’s office begins, the employee should contact the client’s telephone 
operator,  informing  them  of  the  personnel  working  on  the  assignment.    The  operator  should  be 
informed of the department where the employee can be reached. 

D 

RELATIONSHIPS WITH PERSONNEL OF CLIENTS  

•  As  a  representative  of  STS,  employees  are  expected  to  conduct  themselves  in  a  professional 

manner in clients’ offices. 

•  Employees’ discussions of client  business  with members of the client’s organization should be 
carried  out  on  a  professional  basis  and  confined  to  issues  that  the  client’s  representative  is 
authorized to discuss.  These discussions should be handled in a business-like manner.  Under no 
circumstances should the employee discuss matters concerning other clients. 

•  Appropriate disciplinary action, which may include dismissal, will be taken with respect to any 
employee who exercises poor judgment in his/her relationships with client personnel or whose 
conduct adversely affects the reputation of STS. 

E 

USE OF CLIENT FACILITIES 

•  As a general rule STS avoids incurring charges of any kind in a client’s office.  Occasional charges 
for telephone, facsimile services, etc. may be  unavoidable.   Each person incurring  such bills  is 
responsible for ensuring they are paid before leaving the client’s office.  Failure to pay reflects 
unfavourably on both the employee’s reputation and that of STS. 

•  Under no circumstances should one client’s facilities be used to do work for another client, e.g., 
a client’s secretarial staff or office equipment.  Apart from the risk that confidential information 
regarding  a  client  may  be  revealed  without  that  client’s  consent,  such  misuse  may  also  be 
construed as an unauthorized taking or use of client’s property.  Inappropriate actions such as 
these may lead the client to question the integrity of STS and its employees. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Commission System Guidelines 

V1-2018 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 12: COMMISSION SYSTEM GUIDELINES 

SCOPE 

The commission scheme will cater to all sales-related staff in all STS locations.  Sales-related employees 
are those with assigned financial objectives related to financial performance related to their Products or 
Solution, Services, Accounts or Sectors.  The actual combinations for individuals will be outlined in their 
individual objectives as per the STS Performance Management System. 

COMMON TO ALL SALES-RELATED POSITIONS 

• 

Individuals will be assessed based on the financial targets set in their appraisals in line with their 
Division/Department  budgets.    Targets  may  be  individual,  team  or  company-wide  objectives 
depending on the STS Strategy and Management direction year on year.  

•  Each target is assigned a weight and the actual achievement on each target is calculated against 

the budgeted achievement.  

•  All achieved numbers will be calculate based on invoices and P&L numbers as provided by Finance 

and distributed to individuals as per their relevant contributions.   

•  Overachievement (where actual achievement on one or more objective is higher than the target) 
and underachievement (where actual achievement on one or more objective is lower than the 
target) are possible on all financial objectives, whether they are individual targets or targets for 
the entire group or organisation. 

•  The total commission paid by any division (Products & Solutions, Services, Account Management, 
Software Products & Solutions in Jordan and KSA) to all sales & pre-sales staff including General 
Manager (this only includes Division GMs and not Country GMs), Product Managers, Pre-Sales, 
Sales, Service Managers, Sector Leaders and Account Managers cannot exceed 25% of the total 
achieved EBT before allocation of the division. If the total is calculated to be more than 25% of 
EBT before allocation then all figures will be trimmed down proportionally to 25%. 

•  No CCO, COO,  General Manager, Acting  General Manager or Sales Director Base Reward shall 

exceed 10% of the total EBT before allocation of the division. 

•  The only exceptions to point 6 above are the General Managers in KSA and Palestine.  Neither the 
Base Reward for General Manager of KSA nor the Base Reward for General Manager of Palestine 
shall exceed 10% of the total EBT. 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  All  EBT  numbers  (whether  EBT  or  EBT  before  allocation) are  calculated  after  commission and 

incentive budgeted and actual numbers are set to a value of zero.  

•  Once year-end results are finalized, Finance will add year-end receivables’ provisioning balances 
to the Cost of Goods Sold in line with the STS Receivables Provisioning Policy.  This will affect Gross 
Profit numbers and in turn affect commission calculations.  

•  All commission numbers will be reviewed by management at the end of the evaluation period 

who may make adjustments at their discretion. 

•  Any commission-based employee who leaves STS after having been in a sales-related role for 6 
months or less is not  entitled to any commissions (this applies  to new hires as well as people 
transferring from non-sales to sales-related roles from within STS). 

ACCELERATORS AND DECELERATORS 

•  Accelerators and decelerators (explained further below) apply only to an individual’s own targets 

(or pool in the case of the Products Team) and not to company targets.  

•  A 100% accelerator (double up) will apply to any overachievement on personal targets 

•  Accelerators will only apply on the condition that the individual’s group targets are met.  E.g. 
For a Cloud Sales person to benefit from the Accelerator then the entire Cloud targets must have 
been met or for a Commercial Account Manager to benefit from the Accelerator then the entire 
Commercial Sector targets must have been met. 

•  Examples: 

Example for accelerator calculations for a Pre-Sales Executive within the MS Licensing Team with 
the below targets: 

MS Licensing Gross Profit 

STS Jordan Cloud Recognised Revenue  

150,000 

960,000 

80% 

20% 

The Gross profit target is a personal target whereas the STS Cloud Target is a company target. 

The Pre-Sales Executive from the MS Licensing team scores 84/80 on his/her targets and the MS 
Licensing team achieves all its targets – his/her score on personal targets is subject to an 
accelerator where the overachievement is doubled and so his/her score on personal targets is 
calculated as per the below: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(84-80)*2 + 80 = 88/80. 

To calculate the final Appraisal Result, we then add to the personal target score the STS 
achievement on the Cloud Target.  Assuming the achievement on the STS Cloud Target is 16/20, 
their total result will then be: 

88+16 = 104/100  

Example for accelerator calculations for an Account Manager within the Commercial Sector in 
Jordan with the below targets: 

Gross Profit from Products Jordan 

GP HW Services Jordan 

ComplyOne 2018 POs 

STS Jordan Cloud Recognised Revenue  

250,000 

80,000 

30,000 

25,000 

50% 

20% 

10% 

20% 

All  the  above  targets  are  personal  targets  including  the  Cloud  Recognised  Revenue  as  the 
Account Manager is assigned a subset of the total STS target and s/he is responsible for achieving 
this revenue targets within his/her assigned accounts 

The Commercial Account Manager scores 104/100 on his/her targets and the Commercial 
Sector achieves all its targets – his/her overall score on targets is subject to an accelerator 
where the overachievement is doubled and so his/her overall score on personal targets is 
calculated as per the below: 

(104-100)*2 + 100 = 108/100 

The overall score will then be multiplied by the Base Reward for each individual to reach the Actual 
Reward value due. 

     CALCULATION AND PAYMENT OF ACTUAL REWARDS 

•  Commission Calculation Example: 

An individual has a Base Commission of 6K USD and scores 96/100 on their financial targets 

Their commission amount would be 96/100*6000 = 5760 USD 

•  Finance will be doing the calculation of all STS sales members, based on Fiscal year end P&Ls and 
based  on the above  scheme. Calculations will be  approved by  the Executive Committee, after 
which final numbers will be sent out to General Managers. 

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  STS pays out commissions in 2 parts, Commission Advances and Commission Settlement.   

a.  For commission advances, STS pays, from July –December inclusive half the base-reward for 
an employee split over 6 payments.  For new employees, once a new employee has been with 
STS  for  6  months,  then  their  average  base  commission  for  the  year  (calculated  based  on 
period worked during the fiscal year) is calculated and half of that amount is paid out in equal 
instalments over the remaining months of the year.   

For Example, an employee with an annual base commission of 12K USD a year who joins STS 
on April 1st completes his/her 6 months at STS on September 30th.  As of October 1st, his/her 
advance is calculated as follows: 
-  Average annual base commission = 12K USD/12*9 = 9K USD 
-  Annual advance is 9K USD/2 = 4.5K USD 
-  Monthly  advance  from  October  till  December  (3  months)  =  4.5K  USD/3  =  1.5K  USD  a 

month 

b.  For commission settlements, STS pays, from January – June of the following fiscal year the 

balance of commissions due over 6 equal instalments.   

For Example, an employee with an annual base commission of 12K USD a year and with actual 
commissions (calculated based on performance appraisal results) of 11K USD receives advances 
as per the following calculation: 

-  Balance of commissions not yet paid = 11K USD (actual commissions) – 6K USD (advance 

commissions) = 5K USD  

-  Monthly commission settlement to be paid from January till June = 5K USD/6 months = 

833.333 USD a month.  

•  STS reserves the right to withhold part or all advance commission payments for an employee in 

any of the below cases: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

If the employee has not finalized and approved his/her KPIs/Targets for the current 
year  
If  the  employee  does  not  commit  to  deadlines  or  guidelines/  regulations  set  by 
management and that are critical to the running of the business such as the proper 
use  and  update  of  data  on  tools  such  as  the  CRM  &  HubSpot,  project  and  other 
deadlines, bidding, offer and sales policies and procedures, etc. 
If the employee’s performance on the current year’s targets is significantly below the 
set targets so that there is a risk that the employee will not achieve enough on his/her 
targets  to  warrant  all  or  a  significant  portion  of  his/her  annual  Base  Reward.    For 
example, if by July an individual’s achievement on targets is around 10% of annual 
targets (where it should be around 50%). 

•  Any  commission-based  employee  resigning  from  STS  is  only  paid  commissions  on  collected 
invoices.  Any invoices not collected by the time the employee completes his/her notice period 
will not be included in the commission calculation 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Any  commission-based  employee  who  resigns  from  STS  within  his/her  first  6  months’  of 
employment therewith, and whose notice period expires prior to the completion of 6 months at 
STS  will  not  be  eligible  for  a  performance  appraisal  and  thus  will  not  be  entitled  to  any 
commissions.  Any commissions earned in the first 6 months will be recorded and paid out as per 
STS policy once the 6 months are completed  

•  Employees  transferring  from  incentive-based  to  commission-based  (from  within  STS)  are  not 
entitled to commissions if they leave (or transfer back) within 6 months’ of new position.  Any 
commissions earned in the first 6 months will be recorded and paid out as per STS policy once the 
6 months are completed  

•  Any commission -based employee resigning from STS and whose notice period expires before the 
end of the fiscal year, will receive an appraisal score that is based on performance on financial 
targets  only  and  as  per  STS  policy.    Performance  appraisal  scores  on  financial  targets  will  be 
calculated based on the actual working months the employee worked during the year.   

•  Calculations  of  performance  on  financial  targets  and  final  commissions  for  commission-based 
employees transferring internally between departments/divisions will be done at the end of the 
fiscal  year  for  targets  from  both  the  old  and  new  departments/divisions  to  ensure  that  all 
provisions on relevant invoices are accounted for accurately and in line with the prevailing STS 
Receivables’ Provisioning Policy.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Leaves & Vacations Policy  

V1-2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 9: LEAVES AND VACATION POLICY 

The purpose of this policy is to outline the current STS leaves policy that regulates employee leaves, 
those regulated by Local Labour Laws and those offered by STS as part of the benefits system. 

TYPES OF VACATIONS/LEAVES: 

ANNUAL VACATIONS 

The Annual Vacation policy at STS aims at ensuring that employees take regular time off for their 
physical and mental well-being. 

•  Annual vacations are composed of 2 elements: 

1.  Those provided by the Local Labour Laws and those differ from location to location and, in 
some cases, by length of service with the company.  STS applies the Local Labour Law 
exactly as per the laws so details can be found in the relevant Labour Laws 

2.  Additional days awarded to employees of certain ranks.  Those differ from rank to rank and 
range from 0-15 additional days.  Details of those days can be found in the Ranking Policy.  
•  Employees are not given their entire annual vacation balance at the beginning of the calendar 
year. The annual vacation balance shall be accumulated throughout the year. An employee has 
the right to use this balance according to the monthly accumulation.  

•  Up to 7 days of annual vacations may be postponed to the following year, by agreement 

between the Company and the concerned employee(s) whose annual vacations have not been 
consumed and have been postponed, and the concerned employee(s) must claim these vacation 
days within that year, or these rights shall lapse.   

•  Negative vacation balances are strictly prohibited so an employee must be sure to set aside 

some vacation days for emergencies.  

To apply for an annual vacation, employees for all branches must submit their request to their direct 
manager well in advance through the Company’s automated vacation request module on the STS HR 
Information System (MenaMe) 

Employees are paid fully during their annual vacations 

PERSONAL LEAVES 

STS encourages employees to take care of any personal, non-work-related commitments after work, 
on weekends or during vacation time.  However, STS also understands that it is not always possible 
to do so and certain non-work commitments sometimes require employee’s attention during 
working hours.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To that end, STS allows employees to request and take personal leave hours during the working day 
to attend to such commitments.  All leaves hours are deducted from the annual vacation balance at 
the equivalent of 0.125 days per hour of leave.  Every 8 hours of personal leave are accumulated and 
counted as 1 day of personal vacations.   

To apply for leaves, employees for all branches (except Palestine) must submit their request to their 
direct manager well in advance through the Company’s automated leave request module on the STS 
HR Information System (MenaMe) 

Employees are paid fully during their personal leaves 

PUBLIC HOLIDAYS 

Each country in which STS operates observes a variety of public holidays, both national and religious, 
some may be common across locations and others may be specific to one or more locations.  

In general, STS follows the public holidays in each location as they are announced by the relevant 
authority in each country.   

Employees are paid fully during public holidays 

BEREAVEMENT VACATION 

In the case that an employee experiences a death in the family, he/she is entitled to bereavement 
vacation that varies depending on the relationship with the deceased.   

The employee is entitled to 3 calendar days’ bereavement vacation if the deceased is one of the 
following relations: spouse, child, sibling, parent, parent-in-law or grandparent 

The employee is entitled to 1 calendar day bereavement vacation if the deceased is one of the 
following relations: first cousin, immediate maternal or paternal uncle or aunt (blood relative not 
spouse of an aunt or uncle)  

Employees must submit a request and get it approved for such a leave (even if after the fact) for our 
records.  Those days are not deducted from the annual vacation balance.  

Employees are paid fully during bereavement vacations 

PATERNITY VACATION 

Male employees are entitled to 3 working days’ vacation upon the birth of a child.  Paternity 
vacations can only be taken on the day of the birth of a child and any 3 working days from then on 
as long as they are taken within a maximum period of 2 weeks from the date of birth of the child. 

 
 
                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MARRIAGE VACATION 

All employees are entitled to 5 consecutive working days’ vacation on the occasion of their 
marriage.  Those days can be taken before and/or after the actual wedding day so long as they are 
taken consecutively. 

OTHER VACATIONS/LEAVES 

Other leaves/vacations may be permitted in the different locations as per the prevailing Labour 
Laws in each country.  Anything provided by the Labour Law is also provided by STS and governed by 
the laws and regulations of the Labour Laws in each country.  Such vacations/leaves include, but are 
not limited to: 

•  Maternity Leave 
•  Breast Feeding Leave 
•  Sick Vacations (STS does not allow for paid Sick Leaves (hours off during a day), Sick 

vacations are for full day vacations only and employees must provide a medical leave from a 
credited doctor) 

•  Hajj Vacation 

If any of the above (or any other vacation) is not provided in the country in which an employee 
is employed, then the employee is not entitled to it. 

VACATION BUYOUT 

It is STS’ policy that vacation days are not bought out.  Employees are expected to plan their leave 
periods over the calendar year so that their balance on the 31/12 does not exceed 7 days.  Any days 
exceeding 7 days will be forfeited without the option to buy out.  STS only pays out vacation days if the 
employee is leaving and still has remaining vacation days by the time his/her notice period ends.  In such 
a case, vacation days are paid as 1/30th of the monthly basic salary of the employee at the time of 
resignation for each vacation day remaining in the employee’s balance.  Only annual vacation days can 
be bought at the time of the employee settlement. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Competency Framework 

V1-2021 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 30: COMPETENCY FRAMEWORK  

POLICY OVERVIEW AND OBJECTIVES 

The purpose of this policy is to highlight and detail the uses of the STS Competency Framework Model and how it 
impacts various HR Systems and Procedures by defining relevant rules, guidelines as well as outlining procedures.  

It  is  STS’s  intent  to  attract  and  retain  top  talent  through  various  systems  such  as  recruitment,  compensation  and 
benefits, performance management, career management and training and development. 

The STS Competency Policy and Procedure plays a role in all the above and the purpose of this policy is to show how 
it does so for each HR System. 

COMPETENCY 

A competency is the combination of observable and measurable knowledge, skills, abilities and personal attributes 
that enable an employee to deliver superior performance in a given job, role or a situation.  Competencies are 
critical to the short- and long-term success of an organisation.  

Competencies consist of clusters of knowledge, attitudes and skills that affect an individual’s ability to perform and 
that are transferable to other jobs.  

At STS we work with two types of Competencies: Core and Managerial. 

A Core Competency is the fundamental knowledge, ability, or expertise in a specific subject area or skill set. The 
core part of the term indicates that the individual has a strong basis from which to gain the additional competence 
to do a specific job. 

Core Competencies are considered essential for all employees regardless of function or level, each job or position at 
STS requires the job holder to have Core Competencies at differing levels.   

The Core Competencies used at STS are: 

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

Accountability and Dependability 
Adaptability and Flexibility 
Communication Skills 
Customer Service 
Innovation and Creative Thinking 
Job Knowledge 
Negotiation and Influencing 
Planning and Organising 
Problem Solving and Decision Making 
Teamwork 

 
 
 
 
 
A Managerial Competency is the ability to meet complex demands by drawing on and mobilising resources in a 
particular context. It is the ability to contribute to the achievement of an organisation’s vision and mission in 
creating added value and improving business performance especially in the development of the assigned team 
members.  

Managerial Competencies are considered essential for employees with managerial or supervisory responsibility in 
any functional area including directors and senior posts.  Only jobs with people management responsibilities require 
the job holder to have Managerial Competencies at differing levels.   

The Managerial Competencies used at STS are: 

1. 
2. 
3. 

Leading and Developing People 
Managing Performance 
Strategic Acumen 

The competencies in the framework have been designed so that they reflect the different levels that the job 
incumbent will be expected to work at, e.g., level 5 will generally reflect those working at a very strategic level.  This 
could mean a senior/managerial person in the organisation or a role that is very specialised.   

All employees must be working at a minimum of level 1 across all competencies assigned to them.  If, for example, 
an employee is expected to work at level 3 in a specific competence then they should also demonstrate the 
competencies and behaviours set out in levels 1 and 2.  

COMPETENCY EVALUATION  

The Competency Evaluation is the process by which an individual’s actual competency levels are evaluated and set.  
In this process, an individual is assessed for each competency assigned to him/her and the actual level this 
individual possess for each competency is recorded.  This is then compared to the required competency levels to 
measure any competency gaps that must be addressed.  

The Competency Evaluation may show that an employee demonstrates, in each assigned competency, either the 
required competency level or a negative competency gap (where the employee’s actual competency is less than the 
required competency) or a positive competency gap (where the employee’s actual competency is more than the 
required competency)   

The results of the Competency Evaluation form the basis for the following: 

1. 
2. 
3. 

Rank Upgrades 
Learning and Development 
Career Management and Succession Planning 

COMPETENCIES AND RANK UPGRADES 

Because each position at STS is assigned competency levels for each competency, an individual must demonstrate a 
minimum level of competency before being considered for a rank upgrade. 

 
 
 
 
 
The Guidelines for a Rank Upgrade based on Competency Evaluation are: 

1. 

2. 

3. 
4. 

The employee must demonstrate the required level of competency in at least 6 of the 10 Core 
Competencies.   
The employee must demonstrate the required level of competency in 2 of the 3 Managerial 
Competencies where applicable 
The employee cannot show a negative competency gap in the remaining 4 Core Competencies 
The employee cannot show a negative competency gap in the remaining Managerial Competency 

If all the above conditions are met, then an employee’s direct manager may at his/her discretion nominate the 
employee for a rank upgrade.  A manager may choose to delay a rank upgrade until more than just the minimum 
competency requirements are met but in no case may a rank upgrade be considered if the minimum 
requirements are not met. 

The rank upgrade request will then be considered in line with other factors as outlined in the Ranking Policy 

COMPETENCIES AND LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT  

STS is committed to the development of employee skills and capabilities as a means of employee development and 
career management. Competencies and Competency Evaluation play a major role in Learning and Development in 
that they help identify areas requiring development by assessing the competency gap between an individual’s 
actual competency level and the required competency level so that training and development efforts are directed at 
enhancing and improving on required competencies.   

COMPETENCIES AND RECRUITMENT  

Competencies play a major role in the recruitment process.  Competency based interviews help in assessing a 
candidate’s competence level as they compare to the competencies set for the job they are being interviewed for.  
This applies for external candidates as well as internal candidates applying to internal job postings.   

COMPETENCIES AND CAREER MANAGEMENT  

All documented positions will show the required competencies, as well as the Competency Levels for the position.  

Employees aiming to move within a specific position career track or across different tracks must take into 
consideration the competencies required for their target job and must work towards achieving the level of 
Competency required for the position they are targeting.  

Whenever a new position is created at STS (one that does not exist), the relevant Competencies will be set for the 
new position.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STS COMPETENCY DEFINITIONS 

Accountability and Dependability 

The extent to which one internalizes and outwardly expresses responsibility for timeliness, commitment to task, adherence to performance 
standards, and conformity with the rules and policies of an organization. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Adheres to basic 
instructions 

Independently completes 
routine tasks 

Functions under limited 
supervision 

Accounts for 
department/division 
outcomes 

Accounts for company 
outcomes 

•  Follows rules and 

expectations for work, 
attendance and 
performance as 
defined, written, and 
implemented by the 
company 

•  Provides advance 
notice of intended 
absence and/or 
tardiness 

•  Reports to work 
consistently on 
designated days and 
times 

•  Follow set procedures 

and rules 

•  Works independently 
with limited direction 
in carrying out routine 
assigned tasks and 
projects 

•  Functions under 

minimal supervision in 
completing complex, 
sensitive assignments 
and projects 

•  Holds self and other 
accountable for 
appointed 
responsibilities 

•  Presents frequent oral 
and written reports on 
project or task status, 
issues, and potential 
problems. 

•  Perseveres through 
various working 
conditions to complete 
tasks and projects 

•  Shows willingness to 

work overtime in order 
to meet set deadlines 

•  Takes accountability 
for team outcomes 

• 

Identifies and assists in 
addressing areas of 
weakness that may 
affect the performance 
of a unit or department 

•  Takes appropriate 

measures to address 
group/team 
shortcomings 

•  Takes a primary role in 

completing and 
resolving more 
advanced, complex and 
sensitive assignments, 
projects and/or issues 

•  Employs performance 

management strategies 
to promote and ensure 
staff accountability 

•  Facilitates face-to-face 

meetings with 
department/division 
members to 

•  Holds ultimate 

responsibility for 
department and/or 
organisational 
performance and overall 
effectiveness 

•  Defines objectives and 
strategies to meet 
stakeholder requirements 
and needs 

•  Maintain a cost-effective 
balance of controls and 
risk-taking to ensure 
effective and efficient 
operation within budget 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Accepts ownership of 
and responsibility for 
own work. 

•  Adapts working 

methods in order to 
achieve objectives.  

•  Completes all assigned 
tasks on time and with 
minimal supervision.  

•  Fulfils all 

commitments made to 
peers, co-workers, and 
supervisor. 

• 

Informs appropriate 
individuals when 
assigned tasks will not 
be completed in 
agreed upon time 
frame.  

•  Works to achieve 

agreement (by offering 
alternatives, etc.) on 
time frames or 
objectives that can be 
realistically met. 

•  Shows commitment / 

dedication and 
accountability in one's 
work, and follows 
through on all projects, 
goals, aspects of one's 
work.  

•  Follow through and 
meets personal 
commitments to 
others on time 

• 

•  Provides work 
direction and 
appropriate feedback 
through multiple 
communication 
channels as deemed 
appropriate  

•  Holds self and others 

accountable for making 
principled decisions; 
addresses unethical 
behaviours head-on 

•  Takes his/her 

responsibilities 
seriously and 
consistently meets 
expectations for 
quality, service and 
professionalism 

communicate short and 
long-term goals and 
agenda 

•  Address gaps in resources 

that may affect 
organisation performance 

•  Solicits workload reports 

and status updates 

•  Capitalizes on the 
performance 
management process 

•  Takes appropriate 

measures to address 
performance 
shortcomings 

•  Challenges individuals 

openly and 
constructively about 
performance problems, 
adapting a firm but fair 
stance.  

•  Demonstrates good 

resource management 
by using an acceptable 
amount of resources to 
accomplish goals/tasks 

•  Consistently inspires 

others to commit to the 
goals of the 
organisation.  

•  Accounts, reports and 
explains the use of 
resources to achieve 
organisation or 
department performance 
targets, goals and 
objectives 

•  Exceeds his/her 

commitment to others by 
frequently delivering work 
early 

•  Generates enthusiasm 

among team members for 
accomplishing shared goals 
that elevate the team and 
ensure the organisation’s 
success 

•  Recognises when resources 
are being inappropriately 
and takes steps to ensure 
other leaders are practicing 
good resource 
management across the 
organisation 

•  Coaches other 

leaders/managers on how 
to gain commitment and 

 
 
 
buy-in to accomplish 
organisation objectives  

Negative Indicators 

• 

Inconsistently meets commitments to others or delivers on 
commitments late 

•  Occasionally “bends the rules” when faced with pressure from 

customers or other stakeholders 

•  Fails to take ownership of personal or team performance 
•  Refrains from coaching team members to improve performance 

•  Occasionally presents oneself in a way that is inconsistent with the 

image the organisation wants to portray 

•  Sometimes over-utilizes resources  
•  Gains support for some, but not all, key organisation objectives 
•  Dismisses the importance of his/her responsibilities 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Adaptability and Flexibility 

Flexible and comfortable in adapting, changing or adjusting practices, procedures, behavioural style or approach when necessary to achieve a 
goal as appropriate to the needs of the situation. Embraces change with a positive attitude taking intelligent risks and supporting others during 
the change process.   

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Adopts to minor or indirect 
change 

Adapts work method to 
the situation  

Adapts to a wide variety of 
changes/needs  

Adapts to large, complex 
and/or frequent changes  

Adapts organizational 
strategies  

•  Accepts, understands, 

recognizes and 
acknowledges the value 
of differing views and 
ways of doing things. 

•  Displays a positive 

attitude, and where 
necessary seeks 
clarification, when faced 
with ambiguity and 
change.  

•  Demonstrates 

willingness to try new 
approaches.  

•  Adjusts work working 
style to fit different 
situations.  

•  Acknowledges the value 
of others’ contributions 

•  Adapts personal 
approach, style, 
method and/or 
behaviour to meet the 
needs of new or 
different situations 
and performs 
effectively under 
changing or unclear 
conditions. 

•  Flexibly applies 

policies, procedures 
and/or rules while 
remaining guided by 
the organisation’s 
values.  

•  Seeks guidance in 

adapting behaviour to 
the needs of a new or 
different situation. 

•  Acquires and applies 
new knowledge and 

•  Adapts to new ideas 
and initiatives that 
challenge the status 
quo and traditional 
ways of operating 
across a wide variety of 
topics, issues or 
situations. 

•  Anticipates change and 
adapts own plans, 
styles and priorities 
accordingly. 

•  Adapts interpersonal 

approach, style method 
and/or behaviours to 
diverse individuals and 
groups in a range of 
situations. 

• 

Identifies and make 
changes to improve 
efficiency and quality of 
service of own area via 

•  Revises goals when 

circumstances demand 
it. 

•  Recognizes and 

responds quickly to 
shifting opportunities 
and risks. 

•  Stays abreast of 

emerging 
developments and 
trends in own area to 
identify possible 
changes needed to 
plans or goals.  

•  Pursues challenging 
experiences beyond 
customary role or area 
of expertise to add 
value in current area.  

•  Performs effectively 
amidst continuous 
change, ambiguity and, 
at times, apparent 
chaos. 

•  Shifts readily between 
dealing with macro-
strategic issues and 
critical details.  

•  Anticipates and 

capitalizes on emerging 
opportunities and risks.  

•  Undertakes 

developmental 
opportunities to meet 
future organizational 
needs.  

•  Leads change projects 
that have an important 
strategic impact on the 
organisation and 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
regardless of how they 
are presented 

learning to address 
new challenges. 

input to procedures 
and processes.  

•  Manages specific 
change products 

•  Quickly sorts through 
the impact of changes 
on one’s own job 
duties and work 
processes.  

•  Balances current work 
priorities with change 
priorities. 

• 

Is aware of 
organisation’s overall 
objectives when 
implementing new 
processes. 

• 

Implements agreed 
change initiatives 

• 

Involves and motivates 
others in finding 
improved ways of 
working. 

•  Publicly supports and 
adapts to major 
changes that show 
promise of improving 
established ways of 
operating. 

•  Seeks opportunities for 
change in order to 
achieve improvement 
in work, processes, 
systems, etc… 

•  Maintains composure 
and shows control in 
the face of challenges 
and change 

•  Supports other during 

change 

effectively plans for and 
manages their 
implementations.  

•  Creates and 

environment when 
change is “the norm” 
and ways of work are 
consistently challenged 

•  Acts as a role model for 

change by 
demonstrating a 
commitment to the 
change process and 
communicates a clear 
and compelling vision of 
what the change will 
accomplish. 

•  Collaborates with key 

stakeholders to 
promote major change 
initiatives. 

 
 
 
 
Negative Indicators 

•  Continues to work in the same way regardless of change in customer 

•  May understand the requirements of a situation but has difficulty 

requirements or organisational norms 

•  Adjusts ineffectively to different situations; conveys a rigid 

demeanour when under stress or pressure 

•  Becomes overwhelmed when faced with situations or issues 

modifying behaviour to meet the needs of more stressful or 
complex situations 

•  Resists change and clings to status quo  
•  Talks about commitment to change initiatives but does not 

involving ambiguity and/or setbacks. 

demonstrate it in behaviour.  

•  Does not adopt approach to delivering results when circumstances 

change 

•  Responds slowly to changing priorities  
•  Resists change and often openly discusses unwillingness to adopt 
new practices even in the face of compelling evidence for a new 
course of action 

 
 
 
Communication 

Uses language as a tool to share and collect information, to exchange ideas and to openly explore differing perspectives adjusting style and 
content to each unique individual, audience and circumstance. Listening to others and communicating in an effective manner that fosters open 
communication. 
Level 1 

Level 5  

Level 4 

Level 3 

Level 2 

Listens & clearly presents 
information  

Fosters two-way 
communication  

Adapts communication to 
others  

Communicates complex 
messages  

Communicates 
strategically  

•  Makes self available 

•  Elicits comments and/or 

and clearly encourages 
others to initiate 
communication. 

feedback on 
communication and 
information provided. 

•  Listens actively and 
objectively without 
interrupting.  

•  Presents appropriate 

information in a logical, 
clear and concise 
manner, both orally 
and in writing, using 
appropriate phrasing 
and vocabulary.  

•  Checks own 

understanding of 
others’ communication 
(e.g., repeats or 
paraphrases, asks 
additional questions).  

•  Maintains continuous 
open and consistent 
communication with 
others. 

•  Communicates with 
others honestly, 
respectfully, and 
sensitively.  

•  Writes brief, factual 

material (e.g., notes, e-
mail, standard letters) 

•  Openly and 

constructively discusses 
diverse perspectives 
that could lead to 
misunderstandings. 

•  Supports messages with 

relevant data, 

•  Communicates 
decisions or 
recommendations that 
could be perceived 
negatively, with 
sensitivity and tact.  

•  Considers others' main 
points and takes them 
into account in own 
communication. 

•  Adapts content, style, 
tone and medium of 
communication to suit 
the target audience’s 
language, cultural 
background and level 
of understanding. 

•  Takes others’ 

perspectives into 
account when 
communicating, 
negotiating or 

•  Handles complex on-
the-spot questions. 

•  Communicates 

complex issues clearly 
and credibly with 
widely varied 
audiences.  

•  Uses varied 

communication 
vehicles and 
opportunities to 
promote dialogue and 
develop shared 
understanding and 
consensus. 

•  Delivers difficult or 

•  Communicates 

unpopular messages 
with clarity, tact and 
diplomacy.  

•  Writes on complex and 

highly specialized 
issues (e.g., complex 
policy, scientific or legal 
documents), 
transforming technical 
information for non-
specialist audiences as 
needed. 

strategically to achieve 
specific objectives (e.g., 
considering such 
aspects as the optimal 
message to present, 
timing and forum of 
communication).  

• 

Identifies and 
interprets policies and 
procedures for 
superiors, subordinates 
and peers.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in a clear, logical 
manner, using correct 
grammar, spelling and 
punctuation. 

information, examples 
and demonstrations.  

•  Writes longer, 

presenting arguments 
(e.g., presents benefits 
from all perspectives).  

straightforward 
documents (e.g., 
summaries of meetings, 
instructions) that are 
comprehensive, yet 
concise, combining 
information from a few 
sources as needed. 

•  Responds to and 

discusses 
issues/questions in an 
understandable 
manner without being 
defensive and while 
maintaining the dignity 
of others.  

•  Overcomes resistance 

•  Acknowledges success 

and secures support for 
ideas or initiatives 
through high-impact 
communication. 

and the need for 
improvement  

•  Writes strategically 
from a broad, 
corporate perspective, 
clearly and accurately 
presenting a position, 
while demonstrating an 
understanding of the 
needs and sensitivities 
of varied audiences. 

•  Anticipates reactions to 
messages and adapts 
communications 
accordingly.  

•  Writes documents that 

provide in-depth 
information on specific 
issues, combining 
information, as needed, 
from multiple sources, 
and conveying critical 
nuances to facilitate 
understanding. 

Negative Indicators 

•  Does not listen to views of others 
•  Gives information either inaccurately and/or at the wrong time 
•  Presents information in a muddled, unclear or jargonised way 
• 

Is negative, rude or interrupts 

•  Does not attempt to get people on board with an idea 
•  Uses the same approach whatever the situation 
•  Does not compromise 
•  Gives in too easily 

 
 
 
 
 
Customer Service 

Works with customers to assess needs, provide assistance, resolve problems and satisfy expectations; knows products and services. 
Demonstrates strong commitment to meeting and exceeding the needs of internal and external customers, striving to ensure their full 
satisfaction. Is committed to providing quality products and services. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5 

Responds to customer 
requests 

Builds positive customer 
relations 

Anticipates, and adapts to, 
customer needs 

Foster a customer service 
culture 

Considers the strategic 
direction of customer 
service 

•  Provides helpful 

• 

information and/or 
assistance, which is 
consistent with relevant 
guidelines, policies and 
procedures 

Initiates calls to 
customers and obtains 
additional information 
to ensure that the 
requested work is not 
delayed 

• 

Identifies customer 
needs and expectations 

•  Presents a positive 

image to the customer 

•  Responds to requests 

efficiently and 
effectively 

•  Refers complex 

questions to appropriate 
departments/person 

•  Meets customer needs 

in a respective, 
responsive manner. 

•  Contacts customers to 
follow up on products, 
services or solutions to 
ensure their needs 
have been directly and 
effectively met 

•  Understands issues 
from the customer’s 
perspective 

•  Keeps customers up-

to-date with 
information and 
decisions that affect 
them. 

•  Maintains on-going 

•  Tracks trends and 

•  Communicates the 

communication with 
customers 

•  Seeks customer 

feedback to investigate 
ways to improve 
customer experience 

•  Regularly and 

systematically contacts 
customers or 
perspective customers 
to determine their 
needs 

•  Works with customers 
to adapt products, 
services or solutions to 
meet their needs. 

•  Anticipates areas where 
support or influence 
will be required and 
discusses 

developments that will 
affect organisation’s 
ability to meet current 
and future customer 
needs. 

• 

Identifies benefits for 
customers; looks for 
ways to add value 

•  Uses experience and 
knowledge to provide 
additional, value-
added service for the 
customer. 

•  Seeks out and involves 

customers or 
prospective customers 
in assessing products, 
services or solutions to 
identify ways to 
improve. 

organisation’s mission, 
vision and values to 
external customers. 

•  Strategically and 

systematically evaluates 
new opportunities to 
develop customer 
relationships 

•  Creates an environment 
in which concern for 
customer satisfaction is 
a key priority 

•  Links comprehensive 

and in-depth 
understanding of 
customers’ long-term 
needs and strategies 
with current and 
proposed 
projects/initiatives. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Seeks feedback to 
develop a clear 
understanding of 
customer needs. 

•  Shows concern for and 
commitment to the 
customer 

•  Works to resolve 
customer service 
problems 

•  Consistently makes 

decisions focused on 
customer needs 

situation/concerns with 
appropriate individuals 

•  Proposes new, creative 
and sound alternatives 
to improve the 
customer service 

•  Establishes service 
standards and 
develops strategies to 
ensure staff meet 
them. 

Negative Indicators 

•  Does not treat all customers with respect 
•  Takes a narrow view of customer service focusing only on own area 

of knowledge, does not consider that the customer’s needs might be 
broader. 

•  Takes a short-term view of customer service, ignoring the long-term 

needs of customers. 

•  Does not take the time to find out the customer needs instead makes 

assumptions about them 

•  Makes promises to customers that cannot be delivered (sets false 

expectations) 

Ignores customer feedback 

•  Does not prioritise customer needs 
• 
•  Takes negative feedback personally 
• 
• 

Is not flexible about own way of doing things 
Is insensitive to customer concerns and carries out tasks without 
thought of impact on customer 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Innovation and Creative Thinking 

Ability to develop new insights into situations and apply innovative solutions to make improvements; ability to create a work environment that 
encourages creative thinking and innovation in the design of solutions and processes; ability and willingness to question conventional 
approaches, exploring alternatives and responding to challenges with innovative solutions or services, using intuition, experimentation and fresh 
perspectives.  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Acknowledges the need 
for new approaches.  Has 
the ability to think 
creatively and implements 
solutions for everyday 
problems. 

Modifies current 
approaches and has the 
ability to think creatively 
and strives to continually 
improve own processes 
and areas of business 

•  Questions and 
challenges the 
conventional 
approach to doing 
things  

•  Seeks alternative 
resolutions for 
problems or suggests 
improvements to 
current approaches 

•  Recognizes when a 
new approach is 
needed 

•  Has the ability to think 
creatively and use 
initiative 

•  Analyses strengths and 
weaknesses of current 
approaches 

•  Modifies and adapts 
current methods and 
approaches to better 
meet needs and 
situations 

• 

• 

Identifies alternative 
solutions based on 
precedents 

Identifies an optimal 
solution after weighing 
the advantages and 
disadvantages of 
alternative approaches 

Introduces and implements 
new approaches and 
progressive 
solutions/processes 

Identifies and creates 
new concepts and 
designs.  Develops 
innovative solutions and 
processes 

•  Keeps up-to-date with 
developments in own 
field and uses this 
information to introduce 
and promote best 
practices. 

•  Encourages and helps 

others to generate ideas 

•  Uses existing approaches 

or solutions in 
innovative ways to solve 
problems 

•  Sees long-term 

consequences of 
potential solutions 

•  Makes significant 
changes and 
amendments to, or 
incorporates aspects 
from various external 
solutions to approach 
to arrive at an 
appropriate solution to 
meet work objectives 
and /or improve 
results 

• 

Integrates and 
combines relevant 
concepts into a new 
solution for which 
there is no experience  

Identifies gaps against best 
practices, puts forward 
proposals and develops 
strategic implementation 
plans to introduce new 
and improved ways of 
operating.  Nurtures 
creativity.  

•  Encourages others to 
think out of the box 

•  Encourages and values 
new ideas, perceptions 
and suggestions 

•  Develops and 
encourages an 
environment that 
nurtures creative 
thinking, questioning 
and experimentation 

•  Encourages challenges 

to conventional 
approaches 

•  Creates new methods 
or solutions for the 

•  Sponsors 

experimentation to 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Voluntarily puts 

forward suggestions 
for improvement 

•  Recognises that small 
changes can have a 
large impact 

•  Promotes 

•  Works with others to 

improvement ideas to 
more senior colleagues 
in own work unit 

identify new 
opportunities and 
implements and shares 
ideas within work unit 

•  Recommends or 

implements existing 
processes, solutions or 
tools with little or no 
modification, to 
complete work 
objectives or resolve 
problems 

•  Able to import solutions 

from outside the 
current work 
environment  

organisation from 
scratch 

maximize potential for 
innovation 

•  Consistently considers 
and thinks about a 
process, approach or 
tool with the view to 
improvement 

•  Fosters a safe 

environment where 
educated risks are 
supported  

•  Able to modify a solution 
from outside the current 
work environment 

• 

 Reviews best practices 
(by researching and 
evaluating them) and 
what others in the 
industry and/or work 
area are doing and 
seeks to influence 
improvements within 
scope of own 
work/area 

•  Develops clear action 
plans to close gaps 

•  Obtains and provides 
resources to enable 
implementation of new 
ideas or initiatives 
where appropriate  

•  Formulate innovative 
solutions or resolves 
problems by 
developing new 
concepts or approaches 
to meet work 
objectives 

• 

Identifies flexible and 
adaptable solutions 
while still recognising 
professional and 
organisation standards  

• 

Integrate relevant 
concepts into complete 
solutions in response to 
a new challenge for 
which there is no 
previous experience 

•  Shows rigidity in approach to work 
•  Adheres to conventional methods of work 
•  Does not take into account interdependencies between issues and 
processes in relevant functional area or across functional areas 

•  Fails to generate and implement new and creative approaches 
•  Avoids taking educated or “smart” risks 
•  Accepts the status quo 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
 
 
•  Blocks new ideas by not being receptive, sharing information and/or 

•  Creates, recommends, adopts or implements approaches and 

exploring opportunities 

solutions without weighing the potential consequences or how 
they fit within the circumstances of the work group or 
organisation 

 
 
 
 
Job Knowledge 

Demonstrates knowledge of skills, tools, systems, procedures and techniques necessary to provide the appropriate quality and quantity of work 
in a timely and efficient manner.  Applies knowledge to identify issues and internal problems; works to develop additional technical knowledge 
and skills.  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Demonstrates basic 
knowledge of skills, 
policies, and procedures 
for own job 

Demonstrates broad 
knowledge of one job area or 
basic knowledge of several 
related job areas 

Demonstrates solid 
working knowledge of job 
skills, policies, and 
procedures  

Demonstrates in-depth 
knowledge of complex job 
skills, policies, and 
procedures  

Demonstrate expert 
knowledge in highly 
specialized skills, policies, 
and procedures  

•  Demonstrates basic 

knowledge of subject 
matter and where it 
fits into the business of 
STS 

•  Follows basic work 

routines and standards 

•  Applies basic 

knowledge of systems 
and procedures for 
own job/position 

•  Understands job 

requirements and 
responsibilities. 

•  Uses professional 

•  Applies acquired job skills, 
policies, and procedures to 
complete substantive 
assignments/projects/tasks 
of moderate scope and 
complexity 

•  Applies theory and 
puts it into practice 
with in-depth 
understanding of job 
field  

•  Exercises judgment within 
defined guidelines and 
practices to determine 
appropriate action 

•  Applies knowledge to 

common situations that 
present limited problems 
but requires guidance to 
deal with more complex 
situations. 

• 

Independently 
performs the full range 
of responsibilities 
within the function 

•  Analyses 

problems/issues of 
diverse scope and 
determines solutions 

•  Has the capability and 
knowledge base to 
share skills with others 

concepts to resolve 
problems of limited 
scope and complexity 

•  Keeps informed on up-to-
date job methods, skills, 
and techniques 

•  Selects, combines or 

•  Consistently shares 

comes up with 
appropriate tools or 
technology for the 
tasks 

• 

Improves or redesigns 
processes, tools or 
technologies. 

•  Seeks, learns and 

applies new job related 
training and knowledge 
and disseminates to co-
workers. 

•  Only rarely needs 

supervisor assistance; 
often called upon to 
provide input to new 
processes or practices; 

expertise with others, 
teaching skills and 
explaining concepts. 

•  Has significant impact 
and influence on 
organisation policy 
and program 
development. 

•  Considered an expert, 

actively shares 
knowledge and uses it 
to design and propose 
processes, principals 
or practices. 

•  Provides consultation 
on non-standard 
matters. 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
•  Work on assignments 

•  Able to choose and utilize 

that are initially 
routine in nature 

appropriate tools or 
technologies to perform 
tasks 

•  Possess sufficient skills to 

perform job effectively and 
efficiently  

•  Consistently creates 

accurate work and meets 
or exceeds deadlines.  

•  Regularly leads 

projects of critical 
importance and that 
carry substantial 
consequences of 
success or failure 

•  May direct programs 
with organisation-
wide impact that 
include formulating 
strategies and 
administering policies, 
processes, and 
resources 

makes effective 
recommendations. 

•  Exhibits a high degree 
of knowledge in own 
overall field and 
recognized expertise in 
specific areas 

•  Able to analyse unique 

issues/problems 
without precedent 
and/or structure 

•  Able to manage 

programs that include 
formulating strategies 
and administering 
policies, processes, and 
resources 

•  Functions with a high 
degree of autonomy 

•  Provides opportunities 
for others to learn 
skills and concepts 

•  Actively applies 

knowledge correctly in 
non-standard 
situations using a 
thorough 
understanding of the 
work processes, 
principals or practices 
to assure high quality 
outcomes or results. 

•  Can work in most 

situations generating 
correct choices or 
applying appropriate 
processes, principles 
or practices without 
reference to 
supervisor or needing 
supervisory 
intervention.   

•  Defines resources and 
actions to achieve 
objectives within 
constraints 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
•  Performance errors traceable to lack of knowledge 
•  Work output contains frequent or significant errors 
•  Doesn’t follow current practices or processes and is unable to enhance 

job knowledge through training and/or experience 

•  Poor judgment or decision making as a result of poor knowledge 

•  Requires active involvement of supervisor and frequent coaching 

to perform the job 

•  Uninterested in self-development  
• 
Incorrectly applies knowledge 
•  Stuck in past skills, policies, processes and/or technologies 

 
 
 
 
Negotiating and Influencing 

The capacity to persuade, convince and influence others for the purpose of achieving desired results; the ability to effectively represent one’s position 
on issues to gain support and buy-in from others;  ability to generate multiple alternatives to a problem to meet the needs of other stakeholders; able 
to work to achieve win-win outcomes that others can accept and able to appropriately utilize settlement strategies such as compromise 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Uses basic persuasion and 
negotiation techniques in 
informal discussions or 
presentations  

Uses targeted persuasion 
and negotiation techniques 
in informal and/or formal 
meetings to achieve desired 
results 

Facilitate communication 
between two or more 
groups adapting the 
presentation or discussion 
to appeal to the interest 
level of others. 

Initiates and facilitates 
communication between 
multiple stakeholder 
groups when buy-in is 
necessary to achieve 
results and improve 
coordination and processes 

Assembles key stakeholders 
from inside and outside the 
organisation and 
strategically utilises existing 
networks to align and gain 
support for own agenda to 
impact outcomes 

•  Able to describe correctly 

the object of the 
negotiation 

•  Able to identify or create 
a personal negotiation 
style 

•  Takes a single action to 
persuade using a single 
resource (e.g. examples, 
data, visual aids) to 
support own 
argument/position 

•  Uses concrete examples 
to demonstrate and/or 
make a point 

•  Provides credible 

information to establish 
rapport 

•  Determines minimal or 
ideal conditions of the 
other party during 
negotiations.  

•  Keeps arguments issue-

oriented 

•  Adapts arguments to 

appeal to the needs or 
interests of others 

• 

Studies the motivation 
of opposing party 
during negotiations 

•  Develops a strategy for 
giving on some points 
and standing firm on 
others to achieve 
desired outcomes.  

•  Able to anticipate the 
expectations and 
interests of the opposing 
party 

•  Able to anticipate the 
effect of an action 
and/or information on 
others and skilfully 
redirects discussion to 
achieve desired results 

•  Offers compromises and 
trade-offs to others, as 
necessary, in exchange 
for cooperation. 

•  Able to propose clear 
conditions for the 
proposed solution  

•  Able to anticipate the 

interests and objectives 
of the partner 

•  Take multiple actions to 
influence, with each 
action adapted to the 
specific audience  

• 

Identifies and targets 
efforts to influence the 

• 

Identifies and offers 
trade-offs or exchanges 
to gain commitment 

•  Structures situations 
(e.g. setting, persons 
present, sequence of 
events) to create desired 
impact and to maximise 
the chances of a 
favourable outcome 

•  Accommodates 

stakeholders to the 
extent possible without 
undermining other 
involved parties 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Able to analyse own 

•  Uses the process of 

interests and objectives 
in the negotiation 

give-and-take to gain 
support 

•  Able to respect the rules 

of efficient 
communication  

•  Able to use positive and 
respectful messages 

•  Responds to opposing 

views in a non-defensive 
manner.  

•  Able to analyse and 

•  Able to analyse on what 
measure or aspect the 
object can be 
negotiated  

•  Able to identify what 
points or aspects that 
can’t be lost under any 
circumstance and what 
points or aspects are 
ready to be lost 

organise information 
received from opposing 
party 

•  Able to define clear 
arguments for 
sustaining own position 

•  Considers the needs 
and perspectives of 
others and avoids 
applying pressure so 
that win-win situations 
can be realised 
whenever possible 

•  Builds on past successes 
internally and externally 
to gain acceptance 

real decision makers and 
those who can influence 
them 

•  Uses experts or third 
parties testimony to 
influence 

•  Employs cost-benefit 

analyses to emphasize 
the value of an idea 

•  Chooses the appropriate 
approach and time to 
influence others 

•  Able to analyse 
advantages and 
disadvantages for each 
party or side 

•  Able to adjust personal 
style to that of the 
opposing side  and to 
the particularities of the 
object of the negotiation  

•  Effectively articulate 
his/her position and 
helps others understand 
the underlying issues 
and concerns 

• 

Influences others 
without using direct 
authority (e.g. uses 
different examples to 
demonstrate a point to 
different stakeholders) 

•  Generates support for 

ideas of controversy and 
importance  

•  Recognises when a win-
win outcomes is not 
possible and 
appropriately applies 
settlements strategies 
to achieve desired goal 

•  Conveys position well 

even when faced with an 
engaged audience with a 
high degree of 
opposition 

•  Develops and uses subtle 
strategies to persuade 
others particularly in 
sensitive or high 
pressure situations 

•  Helps the other side see 

the potential in 
alternative solutions to 
ensure they understand 
the full impact of their 
decisions 

•  Has difficulty conveying own position to others particularly when faced 

•  Uses inappropriate words or actions given the sensitivity of the 

with opposition 

issue/problem or the reaction of the other party 

•  Convinces others of own position when an issue is of minimal 

•  Pushes others to accept his/her terms without regards to their needs 

importance 

or perspectives 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
•  Unable or slow to get input and develop action plans and approaches 

• 

that reflect relevant insights 

Inappropriately applies different settlement strategies such as 
compromise 

•  Fails to realise when win-win outcomes are not possible 

•  Sees a situation in isolation and ignores solutions that are not 

immediately obvious 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Organises own time effectively, creates own work schedules, prioritises workload, prepares in advance and sets realistic timescales. Monitors progress 
towards operational or strategic objectives. Makes sure all resources are used efficiently and effectively. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Planning and Organising 

Plans and prioritises own 
work, with reference to line 
Managers. 
Makes best use of own 
time and meets deadlines. 

Plans activities thoroughly 
for self / others.  
Makes best use of all 
available resources. 

Contributes to the 
development of operational 
plans, ensures plans are 
fully implemented and 
monitors progress to 
operational objectives.  
Seeks to improve how 
resources are used. 

Contributes to the 
development of business 
planning. 
Manages operational plans 
using a project management 
approach. 
Monitors progress and 
ensures that corrective 
action is taken to meet 
targets. 

•  Effectively prioritises, is 
able to organise work to 
meet designated 
deadlines. 

•  When competing 

priorities exist, will seek 
direction from more 
senior colleague. 

•  Carries out activities in 
an orderly and well-
structured manner and 
pays attention to detail. 

•  Ensures others are clear 
on activity, work load 
and priorities. 

•  Assesses and reassesses 
priorities as required - 
Effectively resolves 
competing priorities. 

•  Prioritises workload to 
ensure everything is 
completed to the agreed 
standard, monitors 
progress. 

• 

Identifies critical tasks 
and objectives, and 
obtains or organises 
necessary resources and 
support to achieve 
operational objectives. 

•  Monitors / income and 

expenditure.  

•  Negotiates the 

•  Provides effective 

•  Where required to 

support to others to 
enable delivery. 

•  Monitors progress on 
process and resources 

structure work of team, 
ensures realistic 
timescales are set for 
both self and others. 

prioritisation of work 
targets and resources, 
and monitors 
effectiveness. 

•  Works with team / 

others to develop plans 
for area going forward, 

Responsibility for the 
development of a business 
plan for own area, which 
contributes to the STS 
strategic plan. 
Secures and makes best use 
of resources to manage 
varying demands. 
Responsibility for the design 
and planning of key projects. 
Is focused on value for 
money. 

•  Plans, organises and 
manages activities to 
make sure budget 
resources are used 
efficiently and effectively 
to achieve organisation 
and work group goals 
(where appropriate). 

•  Manages the 

implementation of area 
plans and ensure that 
corrective action is taken 
to meet targets. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to ensure deadlines are 
met. 

•  Effectively plans and co-
ordinates small projects. 

•  Contributes to the 

planning process of own 
area. 

•  Establishes effective 
measures of progress 
against agreed 
expectations. 

both short term and long 
term (where 
appropriate). 

•  Analyses and reviews 
performance as 
appropriate 

•  Reports on progress of 
key activity within 
area/department to line 
manager.  

•  Provides clear direction 
and makes sure that 
staff/colleagues know 
what is expected of them. 

•  Sets goals and targets 
beyond those required 
and continuously strives 
to achieve them. 

• 

Informs people if things 
get delayed, informs 
team and others of 
progress. 

•  Plans and organises to 
cater for peaks and 
troughs in workloads 

•  Looks for and suggests 

ways to improve current 
working practices. 

•  Use a "to do" list, task 

plan, or similar planning 
devices to note action 
plans, deadlines, etc. 

•  Leaves problems until they become significant issues 
•  Struggles to effectively prioritise work load or meet deadlines 
•  Sets unrealistic deadlines 
•  Relies on fire fighting 
• 

Is unreliable  

•  Uses time inefficiently  
•  Does not track activities to monitor what has been completed and what 

needs to be done.  

•  Does not keep records of activities related to stated objectives.  
• 

Is unaware of status of own work at all times. 

Negative Indicators 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Problem Solving and Decision Making 

Ability to analyse situations, diagnose problems, identify the key issues, establish and evaluate alternative courses of action and produce a logical, 
practical and acceptable solutions.    

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Gathers relevant 
information. Solves 
problems, makes decisions 
independently within own 
area of responsibility, or in 
conjunction with other 
team members or more 
senior staff. 

Resolves both problems 
that occur on a regular 
basis and more complex 
infrequent problems.  Uses 
judgment to assess 
exceptions. 

Recognises patterns, and 
connections.  Looks at a 
complex problem from 
many angles. Exercises 
good judgment, makes well 
informed decisions in a 
timely manner; consults 
with others as appropriate 
before implementing 
decisions. 

Analyses, assesses, resolves 
/ makes recommendations 
on complex problems. 

Proactively solves problems 
to affect change, makes 
informed decisions. Takes 
responsibility and is 
accountable. 

Analyses situations at both 
a strategic and operational 
level.  Identifies the key 
issues, and solutions 
Acts decisively with sound 
judgment. 

•  Takes in information 

•  Breaks a relatively 

•  Considers the 

•  Fully scopes out 

quickly and accurately to 
understand issues. 

complex problem down 
into component parts. 

•  Knows what decisions 
they can make in their 
job and makes them 

•  Breaks problems down 
into smaller parts. 

•  Shows patience and 
determination in 
resolving a problem. 

•  Uses common sense and 

refers to existing 
practices and procedures 

•  Gathers the relevant 

information and facts. 

•  Solves problems by a 
process of analysis, 
looking at root causes, 
weighing up the pros 
and cons of different 
approaches. 

•  Finds the balance 

between the need for 
being thorough (i.e. 
having sufficient 

operational impacts of 
decisions on company 
division /departments 
/team, stakeholders and 
others. 

problems, taking into 
consideration impact 
within own 
area/department and 
across the company. 

• 

Identifies the specific 
information required to 
clarify a situation or to 
make a decision. 

•  Gets more complete and 
accurate information 
until root cause has been 
understood - sees 
implications and 
consequences. 

•  Resolves problems where 

there is a range of 
information, or diverse, 
partial and conflicting 
data. 

•  Looks ahead and 

considers external 
developments, 
identifying trends and 
emerging patterns when 

•  Considers both short and 
long term impacts of 
decisions on the 
company.  

•  Demonstrates leadership 
and courage in making 
tough or unpopular 
decisions. 

•  Works collaboratively 
and tests ideas with a 
wide range of people 
internally and externally.  

•  Makes decisions through 
weighing up the cost-
benefit and risk 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
when analysing a 
problem.  

information) with the 
requirement to make a 
timely decision. 

•  Uses information from a 

variety of sources 
including own networks 
to solve problems. 

•  Generates alternative 

solutions by 
collaborating with 
people who are 
impacted by, or have 
knowledge of, the 
problem, issue or 
challenge.  

•  Evaluates and makes 

• 

decisions in relation to 
procedures, precedents, 
policies and standards in 
own area of 
responsibility.   

implications.  Provides 
specialist / authoritative 
advice to others as 
required to enable them 
to make decisions. 

making important 
decisions. 

•  Equips people to make 
decisions. Ensures that 
individuals working in 
own area have sufficient 
information and guidance 
to make effective 
decisions. 

•  Makes informed 

decisions; considering  
potential implications 

•  Consults collaboratively 
across company when 
developing a solution 
where appropriate.  

• 

Is able to balance the 
need for decisiveness and 
caution. 

Negative Indicators 

•  Overlooks risks in decision making 
•  Misses the key issues as “stuck” in the detail 
•  Not a disciplined problem solver; may be stuck in the past and what 

•  Jumps to conclusions based on prejudices, historical solutions or 

narrow perspective 

•  Goes first with quick solutions, conclusions and statements before 

worked before 

analysis 

•  Has to come back and rework the problem a second time on many 

occasions  

•  Unlikely to come up with the second and better solution, ask 

penetrating questions, or see hidden patterns 

•  Unable to distinguish relevant from irrelevant information 
•  Makes decisions based on irrelevant information 
• 

Is slow and inefficient in making decision 

 
 
 
 
Teamwork 

Working collaboratively with others to achieve common goals and positive results. Readily shares information, knowledge and personal strengths, 
seeks to understand and build on differing perspectives of others to enhance team efficiency and quality outcomes. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Participate as a team 
member 

Foster teamwork 

Demonstrate leadership in 
teams 

Capitalizes on teamwork 
opportunities  

Builds bridges between 
teams 

•  Assumes personal 

responsibility and follows 
up to meet 
commitments to others.  

•  Understands the goals of 
the team and each team 
member’s role within it.  

•  Deals honestly and fairly 
with others, showing 
consideration and 
respect.  

•  Willingly gives support to 
co-workers and works 
collaboratively rather 
than competitively.  

•  Shares experiences, 
knowledge and best 
practices with team 
members. 

•  Assumes responsibility 
for work activities and 
coordinating efforts.  

•  Builds relationships with 
team members and with 
other work units. 

• 

•  Promotes team goals.  

•  Seeks others’ input and 
involvement and listens 
to their viewpoints.  

•  Shifts priorities, changes 
style and responds with 
new approaches as 
needed to meet team 
goals. 

•  Suggests or develops 

methods and means for 
maximizing the input and 
involvement of team 
members. 

•  Fosters team spirit and 
collaboration within 
teams 

•  Discusses problems/ 
issues with team 
members that could 
affect results. 

•  Communicates 

expectations for 
teamwork and 
collaboration. 

•  Facilitates the expression 
of diverse points of view 
to enhance teamwork. 

•  Acknowledges the work 

•  Capitalizes on the 

of others. 

strengths of all members. 

•  Gives credit for success 
and acknowledges 

Initiates collaboration 
with other groups/ 
organizations on 
projects or methods of 
operating. 

•  Facilitates collaboration 
across the organization 
and with other 
organizations to achieve 
a common goal. 

• 

• 

 Builds strong teams that 
capitalize on differences 
in expertise, 
competencies and 
background. 

 Breaks down barriers 
(structural, functional, 
cultural) between teams, 
facilitating the sharing of 
expertise and resources. 

•  Capitalizes on 

opportunities and 
addresses challenges 
presented by the 
diversity of team talents. 

•  Supports and 

encourages other team 
members to achieve 
objectives. 

•  Encourages others to 
share experience, 
knowledge and best 
practices with the team. 

•  Encourages the team to 
openly discuss what can 
be done to create a 
solution or alternative. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contributions and efforts 
of individuals to team 
effectiveness. 

Negative Indicators 

•  Sees them self as better than others and fails to respect their 

contribution 

•  Co-operates selectively in accordance with own personal interests or 

objectives 
Is of the attitude “That’s not my job” or “I’m far too busy” 

• 
•  Passes the responsibility to others 

•  Does the bare minimum to get by 
•  Fails to take on board new methods of delivering the service to 
accommodate different teams, cultures and communities 

•  Makes negative comments about another either professionally or 

personally 

•  Can’t help, won’t help, uncooperative 

 
 
 
 
 
Leading and Developing People 

Ability to lead, encourage, inspire and support others to deliver.  Has the ability to understand how individuals, at all levels, operate and how best to 
use that understanding to achieve objectives in the most efficient and effective way and to realise their full potential. Ability to plan strategically and 
follow up plan with clear course of action.. 

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Sets a good example.  
Motivates and encourages 
others by setting an 
example of a positive and 
energetic approach. 

Gives direction and 
instruction.  Keeps people 
informed and gets the best 
out of them through 
enthusiasm and 
recognition. 

Leads by example and sets 
standards for self and 
others. 

Leads by example at 
individual, team and peer 
level. Demonstrates 
suitable people 
management styles in order 
to motivate and manage 
people effectively. 

Communicates the vision.  
Sets strategic direction for 
own part of the business 
ensuring buy in to the 
decision making process 
and commitment to 
decisions made. 

• 

 Leads by example 

•  Sets and communicates 

•  Willingly takes the lead 
when required to get 
things done 

•  Treats people fairly and 

consistently 

•  Generates a team spirit 

clear direction 

•  Trusts others to deliver 
work once delegated 
appropriately 

•  Ensures feedback is 

objective, constructive 
and timely. 

•  Demonstrates 

professionalism when 
representing own area or 
body of work 

•  Uses mistakes as a 

means to coach and 
develop others 

•  Responds positively to 

work as required 

•  Assigns and co-ordinates 

challenges 

•  Establishes acceptable 
levels of quality and 
quantity of work; 
reviews, recognises and 
supports achievements 

•  Gives others the chance 
to practice new skills and 
capabilities and provides 
support 

•  Addresses issues of 

performance and quality 
standards across work 
unit 

•  Gives constructive and 
objective feedback  

•  Sets challenging 

standards 

•  Encourages and develops 
personal accountability 
in others 

•  Clearly communicates 
expectations and 
consistently monitors 
outcomes 

•  Encourages and seeks 

out feedback and makes 
positive improvements 
regardless of how the 
feedback was given 

•  Sets clear goals and 
standards, ensures 
shared ownership of 
these within team 
(where appropriate). 

•  Monitors progress of 

objective achievement 
against goals/targets. 

•  Pro-actively 

communicates across the 
organisation levels and 
functions the importance 
of short and long term 
goals and objectives.   

•  Key Performance 

Indicators (KPI’s) are 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Builds credibility by being 
trustworthy and reliable 

•  Values and seeks out 

diverse inputs to decision 
making 

• 

In areas of influence, acts 
as a positive role model 
for team members 

•  Raises conflicts and 
barriers to the 
appropriate level 

•  Learns from mistakes and 
acknowledges the need 
for new skills and 
knowledge 

•  Deals with stressful 

situations in a positive 
manner 

•  Solicits feedback from 
others to enhance 
knowledge and skills 

•  Ensures that work not 
meeting standards is 
addressed 

•  Encourages 

•  Understands in depth 
what motivates and 
encourages team 
members and colleagues 

development within the 
team/unit 

•  Effectively deals with 
problems and issues 

•  Coaches and mentors 
others to demonstrate 
their capabilities 

•  Deals with stressful 

situations in a positive 
manner and defuses 
tension when 
appropriate or enables 
others to focus on key 
issues 

•  Aware of change 

management concepts 
including both the 
organisational and 
personal transition 
process 

•  Secures necessary 

resources and support 

•  Provides supportive 
environment and 
removes blocks to 
effective working to 
ensure well being 

•  Recognises those 

individuals who need 
reassurance and 
supports and encourages 
them 

• 

Is comfortable with 
delegating autonomy 
and provides support 
and empowers 
employees to make 
decisions 

•  Vigorously pursues 

•  Develops staff through 
coaching, mentoring, 
guidance and support 

established and used to 
meet the Organisation’s 
goals and targets. 

•  Recognises potential in 
others and encourages 
them to develop 
themselves 

•  Uses delegation as a 
means to developing 
skills of others 

•  Nurtures strong team 
identity and pride 

•  Encourages and 

facilitates calculated risk 
taking 

•  Provides an appropriate 
environment to give and 
receive feedback while 
ensuring feedback is 
constructive, objective 
and timely 

•  Ensures individual 
contributions are 
maximised. 

•  Recognises and 

celebrates others' 
contributions & 
achievements. 

•  Works to provide a 

supportive environment 
by managing resources 
and removing blocks to 
effective working.   

•  Communicates and gains 
team commitment to a 
vision of what is to be 
achieved 

•  Happy to recognise 

individuals with skills 
that surpass their own 
and utilise them to 
achieve a better 
outcome 

•  Translates strategic 
direction to make it 
relevant to individuals 

•  Counsels others through 
difficult issues or new 
territory 

resources necessary to 
implement team plans 
and raises major issues 

•  Values and seeks out 
diverse inputs to 
decision making 

•  Ensures resource 

availability and removes 

•  Garners excitement, 
enthusiasm and 

 
 
or barriers to the 
appropriate level 

•  Vigorously pursues 

resources necessary to 
implement team plans 
and raises major issues 
or barriers to the 
appropriate level 

•  Prepares people plans as 
part of the business 
planning cycle 

• 

blockages and conflicts 
for teams 

commitment from others 
to vision 

•  Communicates the need 
for change and fosters 
employees to embrace 
change 

•  Ensures that people 

development systems 
are in place and aligned 
with strategic goals. 

•  Champions the 

•  Comfortable with 

development of and 
capabilities in the 
business unit 

ambiguity and frequent 
change and provides 
positive support during 
changes 

•  Able to identify potential 

successors  

•  Ensures that all potential 
successors have personal 
development plans and 
is active in developing 
successors 

•  Champions the 
development of 
capabilities in the whole 
organisation 

•  Champions and nurtures 
potential successors 

Negative Indicators 

Is inaccessible to others requiring direction 

•  Does not delegate work 
•  Demonstrates favouritism in the team 
• 
•  Will not develop others in the team, feels threatened 
•  Expects certain behaviour but does not set an example of them 
•  Does not capitalise on and leverage diverse skills offered by the team 

•  Does not use or follow organisation’s systems, procedures and policies 
•  Fails to identify and/or recognise opportunities to delegate  
•  Does not provide staff with resources and support to complete 

assignments 

•  Fails to recognise staff or their efforts 
•  Tells others what they want to hear  
•  Keeps the best jobs for themselves 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Managing Performance 

Ability to assign work and to establish work rules and acceptable levels of quality and quantity of work.  Ability to review work and evaluate 
performance of others, and to develop individuals’ competencies.  Ability and willingness to support employee efforts in working towards and 
achieving goals. . Ability to clearly set goals and objectives linked to the organisations vision. 
Level 2 

Level 5  

Level 3 

Level 1 

Level 4 

Understands own work well 
and is able to set team goals 
and evaluate performance 
against targets 

Understand work for larger 
workgroup or department 
and is able to set goals and 
assess performance in line 
with workgroup direction.  
Able to identify and account 
for barriers and risks 

Has in depth understanding 
of workgroup or 
department work in line 
with organisation wide 
direction and strategy.  
Able to set unit objectives 
and assign to individual 
members.  Able to coach 
and mentor team towards 
achievement of goals. 

Understand work of an 
entire function or line of 
business and is able to 
contribute to development 
of performance measures 
and targets for unit in line 
with organisation targets 
and goals  

•  Treats people fairly and 

consistently 

•  Generates a team spirit 

•  Sets challenging but 
achievable goals  

•  Focuses efforts on 
highest priorities  

•  Gives appropriate 

recognition for success or 
good performance 

•  Outlines goals and assess 
team progress towards 
achievement of goals  

•  Recognises and rewards 
team and individual 
efforts and 
accomplishments 

•  Works not only on end 

result but also on interim 
or in-process 
performance.  

•  Establishes acceptable 
levels of quality and 
quantity of work; 
reviews, recognises and 
supports achievements 

•  Gives others the chance 
to practice new skills 
and capabilities and 
provides support  

•  Clearly communicates 
expectations and 

•  Sets challenging 

standards 

•  Creates and fosters an 

environment of personal 
accountability in the 
team 

•  Encourages and seeks 

out feedback and makes 
positive improvements 
regardless of how the 
feedback was given 

In depth understanding of 
organisation strategy and 
vision.  Ability to set and 
monitor goals for entire 
organisation in one or more 
area in line with 
organisation strategy.  
Ability to drive 
performance in own 
business line to meet 
organisation goals and 
targets.   

•  Monitors progress of 
organisation-wide 
objective achievement 
against goals/targets. 

•  Pro-actively 

communicates across 
the organisation levels 
and functions the 
importance of short and 
long term goals and 
objectives.   

•  Garners excitement, 
enthusiasm and 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Creates adequately 

•  Relates team 

detailed action plans and 
timelines for tasks/goals 

performance to 
workgroup performance 

consistently monitors 
outcomes 

• 

Identifies performance 
measures and evaluation 
criteria to apply to own 
workgroup/team 

•  Clearly explains tasks and 
expectations to team 

•  Monitors performance or 
progress against plan 

• 

Identifies potential 
barriers to achieving 
results and provides 
recommendations for 
overcoming them 

•  Effectively and fairly 
distributes workload 
among team members to 
ensure goals are met 

•  Defines the 

•  Addresses issues of 

performance and quality 
standards across work 
unit 

•  Gives constructive and 
objective feedback 

•  Coaches others to 

monitor performance 
and progress and to 
think through issues  

characteristics of a high-
performing team and 
ensures common 
understanding of purpose 
and direction among 
members 

• 

Identifies concrete and 
meaningful metrics and 
tracks against them 

•  Effectively deals with 
problems and issues 

•  Builds commitment in 

others for their individual 
objectives 

•  Demonstrates a sense of 
urgency about results 

•  Relates workgroup 
performance to 
organisational 
performance  

• 

Identifies the potential 
costs and benefits of 
taking specific risks 

•  Accepts responsibility 

for unmet targets/goals 

•  Builds consensus and 
commitment for 
achieving goals  

•  Develops and 

implements internal 
controls to manage 
potential barriers to 
achievement of goals 

•  Sets workgroup goals 
and performance 
measures based on 
organisation 
mission/vision and 
strategic direction 

•  Communicates and gains 
team commitment to a 
vision of what is to be 
achieved 

•  Recognises and 

celebrates others' 
contributions & 
achievements. 

•  Sets clear goals and 
standards, ensures 
shared ownership of 
these within team 
(where appropriate). 

commitment from 
others to vision 

•  Specifies data to be 

gathered and develops 
systems for collecting 
and sharing data on 
progress towards 
achieving organisational 
objectives  

•  Able to establish Key 

Performance Indicators 
(KPI’s) and use them to 
meet the Organisation’s 
goals and targets. 

•  Creates an overall 

climate that is conducive 
to high-performance by 
establishing 
expectations and reward 
and recognition systems 
that support it 

•  Ensures that 
performance 
management systems 
are in place and aligned 
with strategic goals. 

•  Manages performance 
towards strategies and 
change through aligning 
objectives, appraisals, 

 
 
 
 
•  Gives credit and shares 
success with team 

•  Promotes a sense of 

urgency in the team for 
reaching goals and 
meeting deadlines 

•  Builds commitment in 

others for team 
objectives 

•  Promotes and maintains 
a high performance 
climate  

development activities, 
rewards and 
compensation 

•  Builds a culture of 
holding managers 
accountable for the 
results of their team 

• 

Negative Indicators 

•  Does not make expectations clear to others. 
•  Does not conduct annual performance appraisals or provides effective 

and timely feedback throughout the year 

•  Fails to identify and/or constructively manage employee performance 

problems.   

•  Does not use milestones and deadlines to assess progress. 
• 

Is subjective in the assessment of people/demonstrates favouritism in 
the team 

•  Does not plan strategically or commit to a course of action to 

accomplish goals 
•  Sets unrealistic goals 
• 
•  Does not capitalise on and leverage diverse skills offered by the team 
•  Does not respond to staff's requests for assistance in completing 

Is lax or inconsistent in discussing performance. 

work. 

•  Does not deal with under performance or development issues 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Strategic Acumen 

Formulates effective strategies consistent with the business and competitive strategy of the organisation across the region the organisation competes 
in. Examines policy issues and strategic planning with a long-term perspective.  Determines objectives and sets priorities; anticipates potential threats 
or opportunities. Takes a long-term view and acts as a catalyst for organisational change, builds a shared vision with others.  Influences others to 
translate vision into action.  

Level 1 

Level 2 

Level 3 

Level 4 

Level 5  

Understands and is able to link 
work of own team/work group 
to the goals and objectives of 
the 
department/team/organisation 

Understand the organisation’s 
culture and goals as they 
relate to own area.  Generates 
ideas which contribute to the 
Department or unit plans.  

•  Knows what is expected of 
own work group and how 
this contributes to the 
objectives of the 
department/ team/ 
organisation 

•  Keeps up to date with 

developments in own area 

•  Gets results – demonstrates 

a can do mind set 

•  Seeks to understand 

relevance and value of own 
and other team members’ 

•  Understands and keeps up 
to date, on a broad level, 
with the key functions of 
other units within the 
organisation 

•  Understands the goals of 
own unit and encourages 
others to understand the 
unit and 
division/department goals. 

•  Provides advice, 

information and direction 
to others to support the 
achievement of 

Has an in-depth 
understanding of how own 
division/department /team 
operates and how it links to 
other areas within the 
organisation.  Contributes 
operationally to the 
development of strategy in 
own area 

•  Analyses and develops 

ideas for the plans of the 
division/department/team  

•  Develops operational work 

plan for own 
division/department/team 

•  Provides specialist advice 

and knowledge to 
colleagues and other 
individuals and entities to 
support the achievement 
of objectives 

Contributes to the 
development of key goals.  
Implements agreed 
priorities and 
communicates the vision 
to others 

•  Develops strategies 
within own area to 
improve organisational 
performance and 
achieve strategic vision 

•  Aligns 

department/division 
gaols with the 
organisation’s strategic 
direction 

•  Communicates the 
importance of the 
Organisation’s 

Develops and 
manages the 
implementation of 
plans for work own 
division/area and 
contributes actively to 
the Organisation’s 
strategy. 

•  Creates strategic 

intent and 
develops strategies 
to improve 
organisational 
performance and 
achieve strategic 
intent 

• 

Identifies and 
strategically 
manages risk 

•  Demonstrates a 
broad business 
perspective; 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
activities to the strategic 
direction and key strategies 
of the organisation 

•  Provides ideas and 

information to relevant 
people on possible 
enhancements or 
impediments to 
organisational performance  

•  Understands and explains 

how work unit activities and 
priorities relate to 
organisation’s strategic 
goals 

division/department/team 
objectives 

• 

•  Understands the impact of 
deadlines and decisions on 
other business units and 
functions 

•  Thinks strategically and 
suggests processes or 
procedures within the unit 
to avert problems and 
accomplish goals. 

•  Converts organisation-wide 

strategies and policy 
direction into action items 
within areas of 
responsibility 

Identifies and manages key 
risks and raises them to 
higher levels when 
appropriate 

•  Understands the major 
organisational drivers 
(opportunities, costs, 
threats) and their likely 
impact on the business  

•  Balances resources across 
current and future goals 
and pressures 

•  Contributes to the strategic 

planning process by 
providing input on the 
feasibility of goals 

•  Applies an understanding 

•  Suggest appropriate 

of past situations to 
anticipate and deal with 
any opportunities or 
threats to work plan 
accomplishment 

measures for assessing the 
work plan’s contribution to 
the strategic plan 

mission/vision to team 
and others 

• 

Identifies and manages 
key risk with little or no 
assistance from higher 
levels 

•  Seeks collaboration 

with others to advance 
goals 

•  Ensures that peers, 

colleagues and team 
are aware of 
contribution to overall 
strategy of 
organisation 

• 

Identifies opportunities 
which benefit own or 
other areas or the 
organisation as a 
whole 

•  Demonstrates an 

understanding of key 
financial data and 
management principles 

•  Takes a long term view 
of opportunities and 
assess the potential 

understands the 
impact of decisions 
and actions on 
different business 
units and functions 
and develops 
strategies that 
integrates with 
said perspectives 

•  Demonstrates 

applied knowledge 
in key financial 
data and 
management 
principles 

•  Takes a long term 

view of 
opportunities and 
assess the 
potential long 
term effects of 
each decision 

•  Creates strategic 

model and guiding 
principles to guide 
decisions 
throughout the 
organisation  

•  Leads the 

management team 
in developing 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
long term effects of 
each decision 

•  Develops short and 

long term objectives in 
areas of responsibility 
for inclusion in 
strategic plans. 

strategic plans for 
which they have 
responsibility 

•  Ensures that 
financial and 
performance 
measures are 
integrates to 
achieve desired 
strategic outcomes 

•  Develops 

strategies that 
integrate 
organisational 
strengths into the 
overall 
organisation 
mission 

Negative Indicators 

Is not aware of organisational strategy 

• 
•  Does not recognise the links between related activities or functions 
• 
•  Does not see the possible damaging effects of actions or decisions on other 

Is not interested in what is going on outside own area 

parts of the organisation 

•  Criticises or does not support organisational policies 

Is not willing to accept or co-operate with organisational policy 

• 
•  Focuses on short-term issues, ignoring long-term effects 
• 
•  Does not see the wider picture 
•  Does not predict and prepare for problems. 

Is not aware of the effect of own actions on other functions 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' Access Control Policy  

Version 1-2019 

STS - IT  
Policies and Procedures 

Access Control Policy  
V1 - 2019

S T S - I T / I S M S / 0 0 2  

P a g e  1 | 10 
For latest version and information, see https://twe.sts.com.jo/STS_Policies_and_Procedures 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document Control  

Document ID 
Document Owner 

Change Record  
Date 
Sep. 14th-2019 

STS-IT/ISMS/002 
Sr. IT Manager/ Ahed Naimi 

Author 

Ahed Naimi 

Version 

V1-2019 

Change Reference 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Access Control Policy  

Version 1-2019 

Access Control Policy ................................................................................................................................ 4 
Contents 

1.  Policy Purpose: .................................................................................................................................. 4 

2.  Policy Scope: ..................................................................................................................................... 4 

3.  Policy ................................................................................................................................................. 4 

3.1    The Business Requirements for Access Control ........................................................................... 5 

3.2    System Usernames and Passwords .............................................................................................. 5 

3.3    User Access Management ............................................................................................................ 6 

3.4    Network Access Control ............................................................................................................... 6 

3.5    Physical Access Security ............................................................................................................... 7 

3.5    User Responsibilities .................................................................................................................... 9 

4. 

STS Systems and Services: ............................................................................................................... 10 

5.  Compliance ..................................................................................................................................... 10 

S T S - I T / I S M S / 0 0 2  

P a g e  3 | 10 

For latest version and information, see https://twe.sts.com.jo/STS_Policies_and_Procedures 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Access Control Policy  

Version 1-2019 

Access Control Policy 

1.  Policy Purpose: 

Protecting access to IT systems and applications is critical to maintain the integrity of STS 
technology and data and prevent unauthorized access to such resources. 
Access to STS systems must be restricted to only authorized users or processes, based on 
principle of strict need to use and least privilege. 

 The purpose of this policy is to prevent unauthorized access to STS’s information systems. The 
policy describes the registration and de-registration process for all STS information systems and 
services. These policies apply especially to new starters, leavers and those moving job or 
responsibility. 

These policies should also be seen in the light of HR procedures to verify a new starter’s 
qualifications, references and right to work in STS. 

2.  Policy Scope: 

This policy applies to: 

•  All STS branches and offices. 

•  All STS Employees, guests, contractors or consultants accessing STS IT systems and 

applications.  

•  All IT systems and applications managed by STS IT department that store, process or 

transmit information, including network and computer hardware, software and 
applications, mobile devices, and telecommunication systems.  

•  The Access Control Policy covers: 

A. Business requirement for access control 
B. System Usernames and Passwords 
C. User Access Management 
D. User Responsibilities 
E. Network Access Control 

3.  Policy 

•  STS will provide all employees with on-site access to the information they need to carry 

out their responsibilities in as effective and efficient manner as possible. 

•  All STS Information technology resources must be password protected. 

•  Each STS information system must have a designated information owner who is 
responsible for managing and controlling access to the system. The information 
owner must hold a position within STS that authorize him/her to approve or reject 

S T S - I T / I S M S / 0 0 2  

P a g e  4 | 10 

For latest version and information, see https://twe.sts.com.jo/STS_Policies_and_Procedures 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Access Control Policy  

Version 1-2019 

any access request to the system. Alternatively the information owner may 
nominate a member(s) of their management team who will have the authority to 
approve/reject the access requests to the system on their behalf.  

•  Each STS information system must have a designated system administrator(s) from 
STS IT team who is responsible for the day to day administration of the system 
including the creation and management of system access accounts for authorized 
users. 

•  STS IT department, represented by the IT team, is the custodian of all STS Information 

systems. 

•  Access STS information systems and networks must be strictly controlled by a formal 

written registration and de-registration process.  

•  Access to STS information systems must be controlled by the use of individual user 
access accounts. The use of generic or group access accounts to access STS 
Information Systems strictly prohibited. 

•  This policy shall be reviewed and updated every six (6) months by the IT department or 

upon any major change in STS access policy. 

3.1    The Business Requirements for Access Control 

•  Access control to information shall be specifically authorized in accordance with STS’s 
IT Asset Management policies and associated procedures. Access to information shall 
be controlled on the basis of business and security requirements, as well as the access 
control rules defined for each information system.  

•  All STS users shall be allowed to access only those critical business information assets 
and processes, which are required for performing their job duties. Access to critical 
business information assets and activation of user accounts for contractors, consultants, 
temporary workers, or vendor personnel shall only be in effect when the individual is 
actively performing service for STS.     

•  The IT/IS Manager shall implement Access control Rules taking into consideration the 

following: 

-  Security requirements of the business application(s). 
-  An identified business requirement for the user to have access to the information or business 

process (need to know principle). 

-  The user’s security classification and the information security classification (IT Asset 

Management Policy). 
- 
Legal and/or contractual obligations to restrict or protect access to information assets 
-  Definition of user access profiles and management of user access rights throughout STS’s 

infrastructure       

• 

Information asset owners should define access rules for applications and information 
assets and are responsible for classifying the potential users of each system into groups 
depending on their job descriptions and responsibilities and need for system access.  

3.2    System Usernames and Passwords 

S T S - I T / I S M S / 0 0 2  

P a g e  5 | 10 

For latest version and information, see https://twe.sts.com.jo/STS_Policies_and_Procedures 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Access Control Policy  

Version 1-2019 

-  All systems usernames and passwords shall be securely stored, handled and 

distributed. Usernames and passwords shall be maintained and documented separately 
by their respective owners along with their systems details, expiry scheme and assigned 
personnel details, and submitted to the IT/IS Manager. 

-  Systems usernames and passwords creation, change, deletion, reuse and assignment 
to personnel and history shall be controlled by the IT/IS Manager. Password strength 
and expiry shall be defined based on the related information asset(s) classification and 
compromise consequences from both legal and financial perspectives. 

3.3    User Access Management 

-  The registration and termination of user access shall be in accordance with the User 

Registration and Termination Procedures (STS Onboarding and Clearance processes). 
Each user of information resources must have a unique User ID and authorization from 
IT department to access STS’s information assets. Common User IDs must not be used 
unless they are absolutely essential. Common User IDs must not be issued to multiple 
users when it is technically feasible to provide individual IDs. No users shall be provided 
access before the full completion of relevant authorization procedure. 
Redundant User IDs must not be re-issued to new users. 

-  All privileges to the users shall be assigned through a formal authorization procedure. 
No privileges will be assigned before the completion of the relevant authorization 
procedure. All privileges shall be allocated as and when required on a need to use basis. 
All privileges to the users shall be assigned to a different user ID from those used for 
daily operations. Detailed records shall be maintained for all privileges allocated. 

-  All users shall abide by the terms and conditions regarding the usage and management 

of their user passwords as per STS’s Password Management Policy. 

-  All user access rights shall be reviewed every six (6) months by the IT dept. to ensure 
that they: match the job descriptions of the users; continue to maintain the requirement 
for segregation of duties; continue to follow the ‘need-to-know’ philosophy.  

3.4    Network Access Control 

-  Access to networks and network services shall be specifically authorized in accordance 

with STS’s Access Control Policy policies and associated procedures. Access to 
networks and network services shall be controlled on the basis of business and security 
requirements, and access control rules defined for each network taking into account: 

  Security requirements of the network or network service(s). 

  An identified business requirement for the user to have access to the network or 

network service (‘need-to-know’ principle). 

  The user’s security classification and the security classification of the 

network/network service. 

  Legal and/or contractual obligations restricting or protecting access to assets. 

S T S - I T / I S M S / 0 0 2  

P a g e  6 | 10 

For latest version and information, see https://twe.sts.com.jo/STS_Policies_and_Procedures 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Access Control Policy  

Version 1-2019 

-  Logical access to networking hardware and software shall be limited to properly 

authorized personnel. Access to programmable network devices (e.g., routers, switches 
and firewalls) must be restricted to authorized IT/IS Manager and System Admin 
Department employees. The use of network diagnostic and security tools must be limited 
to specifically designated staff, and in accordance with their job responsibilities. Access 
to all network configuration and security-related data (e.g. ISP numbers, IP addresses) 
must be limited to authorized users (STS IT team). 

-  Virtual Private Network: Remote user access (external connections) to STS’s networks 
shall be subject to appropriate user authentication methods. All remote users must 
connect through only VPN connections to centralized communications server/appliance. 

-  STS Network Segmentation: STS’s information systems network must be divided 

(segregated) into logical segments based on the access requirements. Internal networks 
shall be segregated from the external networks with different perimeter security controls 
on each of the networks. Access and connectivity between internal and external 
networks shall be controlled. 

-  Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) policy: 

  All users of personally-owned devices must employ reasonable physical security 
measures. End users are expected to secure all such devices whether or not 
they are actually in use and/or being carried. This includes, but is not limited to, 
passwords, encryption, and physical control of such devices whenever they 
contain enterprise data. 

  Any non-business computers used to synchronize with these devices will have 
installed up-to-date anti-virus and anti-malware software deemed necessary by 
STS’s IT department.  

  Passwords and other confidential data as defined by STS’s IT department are 

not to be stored unencrypted on mobile devices. 

 

 

IT will manage security policies, network, application, and data access centrally 
using whatever technology solutions it deems suitable. Any attempt to 
contravene or bypass that security implementation will be deemed an intrusion 
attempt and will be dealt with in accordance with STS’s overarching security 
policy. 

IT reserves the right, through policy enforcement and any other means it deems 
necessary, to limit the ability of end users to transfer data to and from specific 
resources on the enterprise network. 

  Employees, contractors, and temporary staff will follow all enterprise-sanctioned data 

removal procedures to permanently erase STS-specific data from such devices once 
its use is no longer required. 

3.5    Physical Access Security 

-  All STS information processing facilities should be protected in secure areas (data 

centers). 

S T S - I T / I S M S / 0 0 2  

P a g e  7 | 10 

For latest version and information, see https://twe.sts.com.jo/STS_Policies_and_Procedures 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Access Control Policy  

Version 1-2019 

-  All those areas should be secured by access door system and surveillance system. 

-  Physical access to STS’s information processing facilities to (authorized) STS personnel, 
vendors or contractors shall be based on identification and authentication procedures. 
Visitors shall be provided with supervised and controlled access to secure areas.  

-  Physical security shall be designed and applied in STS’s offices, rooms and facilities. 

Relevant and applicable health and safety regulations and standards shall be taken into 
consideration. 

-  Location of secure areas shall not be publicized. Awareness of the existence of such 
areas shall be made on need to know basis. All work done in secure areas shall be 
supervised. 

3.6    Mobile Device Policy 

The purpose of this policy is to define procedures and restrictions for end users who 
have legitimate business requirements to use a private or STS provided mobile device 
that can access STS’s electronic resources. 

This policy applies to all STS employees who utilize either STS-owned or personally-
owned mobile device to access, store, back up, relocate or access any information 
resources.  

Rules: 

• 

• 

IT reserves the right to refuse, by physical and non-physical means, the ability to 
connect mobile devices to STS information resources. IT will engage in such action if it 
feels such equipment is being used in such a way that puts the systems, data, staff and 
company at risk.  

 End users who wish to connect such devices to non STS network infrastructure to gain 
access to STS data must employ, for their devices and related infrastructure, security 
measures deemed necessary by the IT department such as updated software, anti-virus 
software, and personal firewall. STS data is not to be accessed on any hardware that 
fails to meet STS’s established IT security standards. 

•  All mobile devices attempting to connect to the District network through an unmanaged 

network (i.e. the Internet) will be inspected using technology centrally managed by STS’s 
IT department. Devices that represent any threat to the STS network or data will not be 
allowed to connect. Laptop computers or personal PCs may only access STS 
information resources using a Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection. 

•  All mobile devices that are accessing STS network should be equipped with the last 

software and OS updates.  

•  Employees using mobile devices and related software for network and data access will, 

without exception, use secure data management procedures. All mobile devices must be 
protected by a strong password. Employees agree to never disclose their passwords to 
anyone. 

S T S - I T / I S M S / 0 0 2  

P a g e  8 | 10 

For latest version and information, see https://twe.sts.com.jo/STS_Policies_and_Procedures 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Access Control Policy  

Version 1-2019 

•  All users of mobile devices must employ reasonable physical security measures. End 
users are expected to secure all such devices used for this activity whether or not they 
are actually in use and/or being carried. This includes, but is not limited to, passwords, 
encryption, and physical control of such devices whenever they contain STS data.  

• 

• 

IT will manage security policies, network, application, and data access centrally using 
whatever technology solutions it deems suitable. Any attempt to contravene or bypass 
said security implementation will be deemed an intrusion attempt and will be dealt with in 
accordance with STS’s overarching security policy.  

In the event of a lost or stolen mobile device it is incumbent on the user to report this to 
IT immediately. The device will be remotely wiped of all data and locked to prevent 
access by anyone other than IT. If the device is recovered, it can be submitted to IT for 
re-provisioning.  

3.7    User Responsibilities 

-  All users shall abide by STS Access Control policy. All users must enable password-

protected screensavers (for unattended user equipment protection) on user desktops, 
portable computers/laptops, and servers. The user shall set the timer to enable the 
screen saver after not more than 10 minutes of inactivity. Each user shall terminate 
active sessions when activities are finished. 

-  Clear Disk and Clear screen policy: 

All employees shall follow a clear desk working environment for papers and removable 
storage media and a clear screen environment for information processing facilities in 
order to reduce the risks of unauthorized access, loss of and/or damage to information 
during and outside normal working hours. Guidelines shall be developed and 
implemented to promote STS’s clear desk and clear screen policy. These guidelines 
should include the following: 

  Paper and computer media shall be stored in suitable locked cabinets and/or 
other forms of security furniture when not in use, especially outside working 
hours. 

  Sensitive or critical business information shall be locked away (ideally in a fire 

resistant safe or cabinet) when not required, especially when an office is vacated 
Personal computers and computer terminals and printers are not to be left logged 
on when unattended and shall be protected by password protected screen 
savers. 

  Photocopiers and faxes shall be locked (or protected from unauthorized use in 

some other way) outside normal working hours  

  Sensitive or classified information, when printed, shall be cleared from printers 

immediately. 

S T S - I T / I S M S / 0 0 2  

P a g e  9 | 10 

For latest version and information, see https://twe.sts.com.jo/STS_Policies_and_Procedures 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Access Control Policy  

Version 1-2019 

4.  STS Systems and Services: 

•  The access to each STS information system must be controlled by the owner of that 

system, he/she has the authority to approve or reject any access request to the system.  

•  The following table shows the owner of each information system at STS, that his/her 

approval is required to grant access to each system: 

System/Service 
MenaMe system 
MenaHR system 
MenaPay system 
ACCPAC Financial System 
STS CRM system 
Door Access system 

Email System and MS-O365 services 
Telephone system /VoIP 

File Server/shared folders 
Internet access / Web filtering service 
STS Software Development environment 
(Servers, applications and DBs) 

The Owner 
HR Director 
HR Director 
Group Financial Controller 
Group Financial Controller 
Director, Bid Management and CRM 
Sr. Administration, Logistics and Procurement 
Manager 
IT Manager 
Sr. Administration, Logistics and Procurement 
Manager 
Each folder has its own owner (case by case) 
IT Manager 
Director, Software Services 

The Custodian 
IT Team 
IT Team 
IT Team 
IT Team 
STS Cloud Team 
IT Team 

IT Team 
IT Team 

IT Team 
IT Team 
IT team 

5.  Compliance 

Compliance with STS Access Control Policy is mandatory. STS’s IT Manager must ensure 
continuous compliance monitoring of all relevant access security requirements. Compliance with 
the policy should be subject to periodic review by the IT Manager and the team of IT 
department. 
Violations of the policies, standards, and procedures of STS will result in corrective action by 
management. Disciplinary action will be consistent with the severity of the incident as 
determined by a proper investigation and might include, but not be limited to: 

  Loss of access privileges to information assets. 
  Termination of Employment. 
  Actions as deemed appropriate by STS’s management. 
  Actions by STS’s Human Resources Department. 

S T S - I T / I S M S / 0 0 2  

P a g e  10 | 10 

For latest version and information, see https://twe.sts.com.jo/STS_Policies_and_Procedures 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Employee Recognition 

V1-2021 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER14 :EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION 

DEFINITION 

It is the Award Program through which STS recognizes and rewards top performers in each 
functional unit for their outstanding performance and contribution to STS and its success 

ELIGIBILITY 

•  For both the Employee of the Quarter and the Employee of the Year Awards, for an employee 
to qualify s/he must exhibit an exemplary track record in terms of overall attitude, behaviour 
and  adherence  to  company  policies,  values,  Code  of  Ethics,  regulations  and  deadlines 
throughout the quarter or year they are being nominated in. 

•  For an employee to be eligible for a nomination they must have not undergone any official 
disciplinary action (verbal, electronic or written) in the 6 months preceding the date of the 
nomination in the case of the Employee of the Quarter Award and throughout the entire year 
in the case of the Employee of the Year Award. 

•  For  the  Employee  of  the  Quarter  Award,  all  STS  Employees  that  have  been  with  STS  a 
minimum of six months by the end of the Quarter in which they are being nominated are 
eligible for nomination 

•  For Employee of the Year Award, all Winners of STS Employee of the Quarter during a specific 

calendar year are eligible for nomination 

•  An employee may be nominated for, and be awarded, the Employee of the Quarter Award for 
more than one quarter in the same year.  An employee is not limited to winning the Award to 
once a year.  

FREQUENCY 

•  The Employee of the Quarter Award is presented each quarter 
•  The Employee of the Year Award is presented once a year 

CRITERIA 

There are three different sets of criteria upon which the award if based: 

• 

Job Related Criteria that is related to the core area of work for each relative unit.  For example, 
in the Account Management Category these criteria could be related to POs issued, CRM updates, 
Invoices and Collection.  In Services, it could be related to Service Delivery, Timesheet Recording, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incident Management, Quality and Customer Service.  The exact criteria are set and managed by 
the nominating Managers.   

For this Criteria, the nominating Manager must set a minimum of 2 different examples that took 

place during the quarter the employee is being nominated for  

•  EDiT Criteria : These Criteria are set to highlight individuals that are embracing STS’ strategy and 
driving its success through involvement, participation and direct contributions in one or more of 
the Dx Dimensions that we are focusing on : 

Customer Focus 
Technology & Business Strategy 
Operations 
People & Culture 

For this Criteria, the nominating Manager must set at least 1 example that took place during the 

quarter the employee is being nominated for  

•  STS  Culture  :These  criteria  are  set  to  highlight  individuals  that  exhibit  behaviours  and 
competencies related to the STS Principles and Culture in their work and interactions with STS 
Internal and External Stakeholders  

For this Criteria, the nominating Manager must set examples of behaviours for a minimum of 2 

different Principles that were exhibited during the quarter the employee is being nominated for  

AWARD CATEGORIES 

There are 6 Awards distributed between 3 Categories based on the number of employees in each 
Category and as shown in the table below: 

No 

Award 
Categories 

Number 
of 
Awards 

Teams 

Locations 

1 

Operations 

3 

HW Services, SW Services, Maintenance & Support, Managed 
Services, Security, IT Development, IT Infrastructure and PMO 

2 

Commercial 

2 

Sales, Products & Solutions, Cloud Commercial, MS & Rapidus, 
Sales Operations, BMD, Product Development and Marketing 
& Communications 

3 

General 
Services 

1 

HR, Finance & Accounting, Stores, Collections, Procurement, 
Logistics, Administration and Digital Transformation 

All 

All 

All 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROCESS 

•  At the end of every quarter, HR will contact the relevant Managers to ask them to nominate an 
individual.  Each Manager can nominate only one individual per quarter.  The nomination must 
include justification for the nomination in each of the 3 categories. 

•  Management will then review the nominations and will select winners from each category 
based on the justification provided and the number of awards assigned to each category.   

• 
•  Employee of the Year nominations are made after the end of the year.  The list of eligible 

employees is the same list as the winners of the Employee of the Quarter Winners from Q1, Q2, 
Q3 and Q4 of a specific year. 

• 
•  Each Manager is asked to nominate from the list of his/her employees of “Employee of the 

Quarter” winners one employee for the Employee of the Year Award. 

• 
• 

It is not mandatory for a Manager to nominate someone every quarter and/or year.  If the 
Manager feels that for a specific person there is no employee they want to nominate, they may 
opt not to nominate anyone. 

• 
•  At the same time, not all nominations are necessarily accepted.  Management reserves the right 
to refuse a nomination and eliminate the nominated employee if the nominated employee does 
not meet the eligibility requirements or they feel that the justification provided does not match 
the criteria set 

CELEBRATING THE WINNERS 

For the Employee of the Quarter Awards, HR will organise and announce an event once the 
winners have been selected in which Management will distribute the Awards and celebrate the 
winners and their achievements 

The Employee of the Year winner will either be celebrated through the Annual STS event if the timing is 
suitable or else a separate event will be planned to celebrate the winner and his/her achievements and 
to present him/her with the Employee of the Year Award. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Manual Introduction 

V1-2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION 

This manual contains the Human Resources Management Policies adopted by STS (all STS branches 
operating in Jordan, KSA, UAE, Bahrain, and Palestine).  It is an operational guideline for all employees. 
All employees are expected to be fully conversant with its contents and to implement the policies 
contained herein.  All polices apply to all STS employees in all STS locations except where specifically 
stated otherwise. 

DISTRIBUTION 

•  This manual is a confidential document.  With the exception of legal advisors and other persons 
authorized by the Human Resources Department, no part of the contents of the manual is to be 
made available to any person(s), organization(s) and/or institution(s). 

•  The Human Resources Department is the owner of this document.   

•  STS Management must approve all additions and amendments to this manual. 

REVIEW AND UPDATE OF THE MANUAL 

•  This manual is a statement of STS’ current Human Resources Policies.  These policies have been 

established and will be reviewed periodically. 

•  Amendments and revisions will take the form of revised policies.   HR will announce any 
revisions, amendments or modifications made to this manual electronically through 
announcements and revisions to published policies on the STS TWE. 

ORGANIZATION OF THE MANUAL 
The structure of this manual is organized by topics.  Policies have been grouped together according to the 
subject. 

INTRODUCING STS MANAGEMENT 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The members of the STS Board of Directors are: 

•  Mr. Aiman Mazahreh 
•  Mr. Humam Mufti 
•  Mr. Ramzi Zeine 
•  Mr. Omar Shaban 
•  Mr. Karim Abu Rous 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Performance Management 

V1-2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 13: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 

STS sets and measures employee performance based on pre-set targets on an annual basis.  The 
purpose of this is to help to improve the communication between mangers and their employees with 
regard to work expectations, present performance and future professional growth. It also reinforces 
good job performance and helps to improve unsatisfactory performance.  

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 

Performance Management System is a method to refine, calibrate and reward the performance of an 
employee. It also helps management analyse the employee's knowledge, skills, behaviour and his/her 
contribution towards the overall STS Group's goals. This is accomplished by providing a means of 
measuring employees' effectiveness on the job; identifying areas of development where employees are 
in need of training, growth, improvement and/or additional resources; maintaining a high level of 
motivation through feedback with the Supervisors/Managers and establishing individual performance 
goals.  This is achieved through annual performance appraisals. 

The purpose of the performance appraisal is to:  

•  Provide a means of measuring employee’s effectiveness on the job 
•  Permit  on-the-spot  coaching,  in  which  you  can  identify  development  needs  and  set  up 

• 

development activity. 
Improve relationship and communication between Team Leader/ Manager and their employees 
with regard to work expectations, performance and future professional development.  
Identifying training needs and opportunities for personal and professional development. 

• 
•  Support equitable decision-making by the management in areas such as, but not limited to, salary 

adjustment, rank upgrades and internal transfers.  

ELEMENTS OF THE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 

Performance measures/targets/KPIs can either be financial or non-financial targets.   People in sales-
related positions get a mix of financial and non-financial targets as per the prevailing company 
guidelines.  Incentive-based positions have purely non-financial targets. 

REWARDS AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 

Performance results are used to compute employee commissions and incentives.  For more details, 
please review the STS reward policy.  

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT TOOL 

STS uses a web-based tool to log objectives and calculate performance management results.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

STS Code of Ethics 

V1-2018 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
CHAPTER 5: STS CODE OF ETHICS 

Letter from the Chairman of the Board 

Introduction to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  

At STS, we are committed to conducting our business with honesty and integrity and complying with all 
applicable laws. STS’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (“Code”) exemplifies our dedication to these 
high business standards. The Code summarizes the legal and ethical principles that we follow in our daily 
work and applies these principles to our policies and practices.  

STS’s commitment to the Code starts at the top of the corporation. The STS Ethics Office reports to the 
Board of Directors and assesses STS’s overall compliance with applicable law and the Code, oversees the 
compliance training program and considers the appropriate response to significant compliance matters 
and legal developments.  

Laws and standards vary in different countries and cultures, but, as a regional company, our common goal 
and continuing commitment is to maintain equally high standards wherever we operate. Some parts of 
the Code focus on United States laws because the majority of STS vendors are from the US and we have 
a  high  degree  of  business  regulation  to  be  maintained.  However,  this  U.S.  focus  does  not  reduce  our 
obligation and commitment  to  also comply with the applicable laws of countries  in which we operate 
and/or conduct business.  

The obligations in the Code apply to:  

• STS Corporation, its  subsidiaries,  affiliates, joint ventures and all other entities, that, in each 
case, are directly or indirectly controlled or managed by STS;  
• The employees and directors of these entities (to the extent applicable to their work for STS)  
• Suppliers and contractors in their work on behalf of STS.  

All  of  us,  including  all  employees,  officers,  directors  and  others  who  are  bound  by  the  Code,  are 
responsible  for  becoming  familiar  with  and  abiding  by  the  Code.  In  addition,  STS  group,  division  and 
operations managers and supervisors are accountable for compliance with – and enforcement of – the 
Code by the operations they manage. Failure to carry out these responsibilities may lead to disciplinary 
action, including discharge.  

You are also required to promptly and accurately report any violations of the Code that come to your 
attention. Sections 3 and 4 of the Code contain specific information on fulfilling your reporting obligations. 
Reporting and information resources are also provided at the end of the Code. The Code is not intended 
to cover every possible ethical or legal situation. Wisdom, discretion and sound judgment should guide 
everyone.  
We need your commitment to help maintain the moral, ethical and law-abiding heritage that has been so 
important to STS. I know I can count on it.  

Ramzi Zeine 
Chairman of the Board 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We Are Committed to Ethical Behaviour 

Commitment to Ethics. 

Ethical behaviour is an individual responsibility. Behaviour reflecting high ethical standards is expected of 
all directors, employees and others who are bound by the Code, regardless of position or location.  

No director, officer, manager  or supervisor has the authority to violate or require conduct  by another 
employee or any other person that violates the Code, other STS policies or applicable law.  

The obligations in the Code apply to STS Corporation, its subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures and all other 
entities, that, in each case, are directly or indirectly controlled or managed by STS, the employees and 
directors of these entities (to the extent applicable to their work for STS) and suppliers and contractors in 
their work on behalf of STS.  

Management Responsibility for Ethics  

All STS Officers, managers and supervisors are accountable for the actions of the employees who report 
to them and responsible for seeing that the Code, other STS policies and applicable laws are followed.  

They must:  

• 

Inform their employees  about company policies, including those dealing with legal and ethical 
behaviour. 

•  Ensure  that  appropriate  ongoing  employee  training  occurs  and  that  violators  of  the  Code  are 

appropriately disciplined. 

•  Avoid hiring individuals who have a propensity to violate any applicable law or rules of the type 

embodied in the Code; and 

•  Maintain  a  work  environment  where  constructive,  frank,  and  open  discussion  about  ethics  is 

• 

encouraged and expected       without fear of retaliation. 
In this effort, managers should seek and will receive support from STS’s Human Resources and 
the Ethics Office. 

 We Comply with the Code, Other STS Policies, and All Applicable Laws 

We comply with the Code, other STS policies and all applicable laws in conducting our business.  

There are countries where common trading or negotiating practices are based on codes of conduct that 
are less stringent or different than the Code. In such countries, employees should follow the Code, except 
for variances that are permitted by applicable law and are based on good ethical and business judgment.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The relevant division manager or General Managers of STS Corporation must approve any such variance 
in writing if no division manager is available. Contact an STS lawyer if you have any questions about the 
application  of  the  law  of  any  country,  about  the  Code,  or  about  the  relation  or  any  apparent  conflict 
between them.  

In the unusual circumstances where a waiver of the Code would be appropriate for an executive officer 
or director, such waiver must be approved by the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board and 
promptly disclosed as required by applicable laws and regulations. In the case of all other employees, only 
a corporate officer, in conjunction with the Board of Directors, may grant such a waiver.  

We Fulfil the STS Ethics Office Program 

STS Ethics Office 

The STS Ethics Office will be headed by an Ethics/Compliance Officer and reports directly to the CEO and 
Board of Directors. Ms. Rasha Atallah is selected as STS Ethics Officer starting August 2018.  The Ethics 
Office/Officer  assesses  STS’s  overall  compliance  with  applicable  law  and  the  Code,  oversees  the 
compliance training program, and considers the appropriate response to significant compliance matters 
and  legal  developments.  In  addition  to  the  resources  that  can  be  provided  for  asking  questions  and 
reporting  suspected  violations  of  the  Code,  employees  are  encouraged  to  contact  the  Ethics  Office 
through the address below:  

STS Ethics Office  

Ms. Rasha I. Atallah 

Shaban’s Building 

Amman, Jordan - 11195 

Or: STS Ethics Response Line: ++962795767989 

Or: STS Ethics Email: ethics@sts.com.jo 

We Report Suspected Non-Compliance 

Any employee who learns of a suspected violation of the Code must immediately report it by following 
the procedure below. Employees are required to come forward with any such information without regard 
to the identity or position of the suspected offender. 

STS  will  treat  the  information  in  a  confidential  manner  and  will  ensure  that  no  acts  of  retribution  or 
retaliation will be taken against anyone for making a report in good faith. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Compliance Reporting Procedure  

Employee Report: Any employee who learns of a violation of the Code must immediately report it.  

Investigation:  It  is  STS’s  policy  and  intent  to  investigate  any  reported  violation of  the  Code,  other  STS 
policy, or applicable law, and to take appropriate action, as determined by STS, based on the results of 
the  investigation.  Reports  of  violations  of  accounting,  accounting  controls  and  audit  matters  will  be 
investigated under the supervision of the Board of Directors.  

All other violations will be investigated under the supervision of the Ethics Office. Employees are expected 
to cooperate in the investigation of reported violations.  

Confidentiality: The investigators will not disclose the identity of anyone who reports a suspected violation 
or who participates in the investigation. Employees should be aware that the Ethics Office is obligated to 
act in the best interests of STS and do not act as personal representatives or lawyers for the employees.  

Protection against Retaliation: Retaliation in any form against an individual, who in good faith reports a 
violation  of  the  Code,  or  who  assists  in  the  investigation  of  a  reported  violation,  is  prohibited.  Every 
employee may report such violations without fear of retaliation by co-workers, supervisors or others that 
are the subject of the report.  

Discipline for Non-compliance  

Failure to comply with the Code will result in disciplinary action ranging from a reprimand to dismissal.  

Civil or criminal violations may be prosecuted.  

We Value and Safeguard Our Relationships with Customers  

Most Valued Supplier  

A primary objective at STS is to become our customers’ most valued supplier.  

We achieve this objective by providing products and services that best meet customer needs and doing 
so in a manner that creates a lasting bond of cooperation and trust.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We treat customers fairly and honestly at all times in a manner that conforms to all applicable laws and is 
consistent  with  good  business  practice.  We  do  not  make  false  or  misleading  remarks  about  other 
companies or their employees or products, including our competitors.  

Safe and High-Quality Products  

We conduct business with a high regard for the health and safety of those using our products and services. 
This regard assures safety and strengthens the  bond between STS and our customers. Each employee 
plays  a  critical  role  in  ensuring  the  quality  and  safety  of  STS  products,  from  design  through 
implementation, ongoing improvements, and customer support.  

We Value and Safeguard Our Employee Relationships 

Respect for Employees  

STS is committed to respecting human dignity. Trust, respect, and ethical business conduct are essential 
to achieving and maintaining sound relationships among our employees. Basic to these relationships is 
the recognition of the personal value and contribution of every employee. At STS, we value the diversity 
of  our  employees,  and  we  judge  and  treat  every  employee  with  dignity  and  respect.  Consistent  with 
applicable laws of the location, employees and applicants for employment will be judged on the basis of 
their performance and qualifications without regard to race, creed, gender, religion, national origin, age 
or disability. Sexual harassment of any type is prohibited.  

Child Labour/Forced Labour  

We are opposed to any form of harmful child labour and forced or compulsory labour. It is STS policy to 
prohibit harmful child labour or the use of forced or compulsory labour in our workplaces and we expect 
our suppliers and contractors to do the same.  

Respect for Employees’ Privacy  

STS respects the privacy of its employees, former employees and job applicants and will share employee 
information only for business reasons consistent with applicable law. This is not inconsistent with STS’s 
right to monitor electronic communications.  

Safe and Healthy Working Environment  

Maintaining a safe and healthy work environment is integral to the operation of our business. Accidents 
harm our employees and undermine the effective performance of the business, as well as the trust of the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
communities in which we operate. We are responsible for preventing accidents by maintaining a healthy 
work  environment,  by  following  safe  procedures  and  practices,  and  by  using  all  prescribed  personal 
protective equipment where applicable to our business.  

No Substance Abuse  

We do not use, sell, purchase, transfer, manufacture, possess, or permit to be present in our system any 
illegal  or  unauthorized  drugs,  synthetic/designer  drugs,  or  any  controlled  substance  (except  legally 
prescribed drugs), nor do we abuse prescribed drugs, while on STS premises, engaged in STS business, or 
operating STS equipment.  

In addition, we do not use, sell, manufacture, purchase, transfer or possess alcohol in an STS facility or on 
company  premises.  We  are  not  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  while  performing  STS  business  or  job-
related duties or while operating STS equipment.  

We Comply with Health, Safety, Security, and Environmental Laws 

We  are  committed  to  protecting  the  environment  and  the  health  and  safety  of  our  employees,  our 
families, our communities, and the public through full compliance with all applicable laws and continuous 
improvement of our performance on environmental, health and safety matters.  

To  meet  STS  environmental  standards,  every  STS  owned-and-operated  facility  must  demonstrate 
compliance with all public health and environmental laws pertaining to its operations and consistent with 
applicable law.  

STS’s Policy on Health, Safety, Security, and the Environment  

STS embraces our responsibility to protect the environment and the health, safety and security of our 
employees, their families, our communities, and the public, as a core value of our business sustainability.  

Transparently  promoting  health,  safety,  security,  and  environment  is  the  responsibility  of  all  STS 
employees in the countries in which we operate.  

STS’s health, safety, security, and environment Guiding Principles mandate that we:  

•  Pursue  a  business  strategy  that  builds  on  sustainable  innovation,  operations  and  business 
practices as we seek to grow our businesses and improve the quality of people’s lives everywhere. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Openly conduct our business in a manner that is protective of public and occupational health, the 

environment and employee safety.  

•  Strive to eliminate all accidents and injuries, with an objective of achieving injury-free workplaces.  
•  Comply with all relative laws and regulations.  
•  Actively  engage  with  our  employees,  suppliers,  customers,  neighbours,  and  shareholders  to 

ensure continuous improvement. 

•  Engage in recycling programs where appropriate. 

We Value and Safeguard Our Relationships with Suppliers and Contractors  

We seek to maintain our reputation as a dependable customer by being equitable and reliable in dealings 
with suppliers. We will treat suppliers and contractors fairly and honestly at all times and in a manner 
conforming to all applicable laws.  

We expect our suppliers to share our commitment to sustainability and to producing safe and high-quality 
products.  

We expect our suppliers to conduct themselves in an ethical and responsible manner that supports the 
protection of and respect for human dignity in their workplaces and is consistent with STS’s standards.  

We Protect Our Property and the Property of Others 

We are responsible for the protection of STS assets, including physical property, intangible assets, and all 
forms of electronic documents and files, business communications, including electronic mail, telephone, 
Internet and Intranet, against loss, theft, and misuse. STS assets are intended for use for proper company 
purposes and may not be sold, loaned, given away or disposed of without proper authorization. We may 
make  personal  use  of  such  assets  on  an  occasional  and  limited  basis  only  as  long  as  STS’s  policies  on 
Acceptable  Use  of  IT  Resources  and  other  relevant  policies  are  followed,  there  are  no  measurable 
increased costs and other employees are not distracted as a result of the use. In addition, use of such 
assets for personal gain is prohibited.  

We Use our Electronic Communications and Internet Access for Company Purposes  

STS’s electronic communications and Internet access systems are important tools through which we 
conduct much of our company’s business. These communication mechanisms and devices include e-
mail, fax and instant messaging systems. STS reserves the right to monitor the use of its Internet 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
resources and electronic communications and to investigate potential improprieties. Users have no 
expectation of privacy in their use of STS communications systems beyond that required by law.  

STS reserves the right to filter Internet content that it considers offensive or inappropriate. All use of 
Internet access and electronic communications will be in accordance with applicable laws, regulations 
and STS policies and shall not be used to:  

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

Violate copyright, trade secret, patent or other intellectual property rights.  
Reveal company confidential information via social media networks or otherwise;  
Threaten, deceive, defraud, harass, defame, intimidate or offend others or otherwise violate 
the privacy of any person;  
Attempt to gain illegal access into another computer network or system;  
Create, execute, store or knowingly propagate non-approved files, such as viruses, worms, 
password capturing  programs, Trojan horses, etc.  
Intentionally disrupt or disable STS resources nor prevent other authorized users from using 
these resources;  
Send chain letters, unauthorized solicitations or advertisements;  
Distribute STS business e-mail addresses of other employees for non-business purposes such 
as subscribing to private bulletin boards, shopping sites and any other non-business sites;  
Introduce sexually explicit or offensive materials into the workplace;  
Access pornography, gambling ventures, nonbusiness – related chat rooms or message 
boards; or  
Download files, unless they are necessary for business purposes and approved by the local IT 
department.  

Reporting Loss or Misuse of Property  

Any individual aware of the loss or misuse of any property must report it to his or her manager or 
supervisor or another appropriate STS person or contact the Ethics Office at the numbers and address 
provided. Any individual receiving such reports shall handle them in a careful and thorough manner.  

We Protect STS Confidential Information and Respect the Confidential Information of Others 

What is Confidential Information?  

Confidential information is information that is not generally known to the public and, if improperly 
disclosed, may be harmful to the company or its customers or suppliers, or helpful to its competitors.  

STS possesses valuable confidential information that has been developed over many years at 
considerable expense.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
This information includes proprietary information and trade secrets, such as sales, financial, scientific, 
economic or engineering information, customer lists, marketing plans, technical plans, formulas, 
methods, techniques, processes, procedures, programs and codes – regardless of how such information 
is stored, compiled or memorialized – for which STS takes reasonable measures to keep secret.  

How do we protect Confidential Information?  

We must protect the confidentiality of this information as carefully as we protect STS’s physical and 
other property and should routinely take precautions to keep the information from being disclosed. We 
do not share confidential information with, or authorize its use by Non-STS People or even with STS 
people who do not need to know the information, except as provided in contracts or legally mandated 
non-disclosure agreements.  

The obligation to protect STS’s confidential information continues even after employment at STS ceases. 
If it is appropriate for business reasons to share STS confidential information with a Non-STS Person 
and/or to allow a Non-STS Person to use the confidential information, a written confidentiality 
agreement is required to be executed in advance. STS HR Department can provide an agreement that is 
appropriate for the circumstances or one of STS designated lawyers can be contacted through the HR 
Department. We also keep the information in a secure, non-accessible location and transmit confidential 
information electronically only under secure conditions.  

Our obligation to protect confidential information extends to social media networking. STS employees 
should follow the same procedures for protecting company confidential information when engaging in 
any social networking activities.  

STS will vigorously pursue any suspected improper taking and/or use of its confidential information.  

If we discover a possible theft of STS confidential information, we must bring this discovery to our 
supervisor, the Ethics office or other appropriate person.  

We Gather Business Information Ethically and Lawfully 

As part of the daily execution of our business, we gather intelligence about competitors, suppliers, and 
customers in ethical and lawful ways. Most useful information is available from public sources through 
hard work and persistence. In seeking information from non-public sources, we act with honesty and 
integrity, and we do not seek, obtain, or use any information if it would violate any applicable law, 
including without limitation trade secret or other confidential information laws, and laws relating to 
confidential relationships between employers and employees.  

We protect confidential information provided on a confidential basis by others to STS – usually by 
following procedures described in agreements relating to the information.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We will not improperly take confidential information from others.  Individuals and companies who 
improperly disclose confidential information are subject to lawsuits for damages and injunctions, as well 
as criminal liability under signed Non-Disclosure Agreements, including financial penalties or even prison 
terms.  

We do not accept or misdirect communications or electronic documents not meant for us. Any receipt 
of such communications that appears to be in error and contains proprietary or sensitive information, 
such as a competitor’s marketing plans or client’s requirements should be reported to your supervisor 
and, in the case of electronic communications, to the IT department so that any appropriate action can 
be taken.  

We Avoid Conflicts of Interest 

We shall not engage in any activity that would create a conflict of interest between our personal interests 
(including the interests of our immediate families*) and the best interests of STS. We will make all business 
decisions in the best interests of STS. Any actual or potential conflict of interest between STS and us is 
prohibited unless specifically approved in writing by our supervisor (or in the case of a director, the Board 
of  Directors).  In  determining  the  presence  or  absence  of  a  conflict  of  interest,  the  following  will  be 
considered: the amount of our financial interest; our position with STS and the influence that we may 
have in business dealings that impact the matter; and all other relevant factors.  

Activities that could create a conflict of interest include:  

• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

Engaging in personal or any other Non-STS Business on company time or with company assets;  
self-employment  or  engaging  in  any  other  activity,  if  the  work  or  activity  affects  job 
performance or encroaches on         time or    attention that should be devoted to STS’s affairs;  
Disclosing or using for personal advantage confidential information gained by our position with 
STS.  
Disposing of STS assets for personal benefit. This policy applies both to physical assets – such as 
equipment, cars and trucks, and office supplies – and to services provided or paid for by STS, 
such as Internet access, electronic mail, telephone, fax and the internal mail system.  
Accepting loans or gifts of any kind, preferential treatment, or favours that place or appear to 
place  us or any member of our immediate  family*  under a stated or implied obligation to a 
competitor,  supplier  or  customer  of  STS.  For  example,  we  do  not  make  investments  in 
competitors, suppliers, or customers of any kind if the arrangement is not generally available to 
others or if a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest could arise because 
of our duties and responsibilities. We may accept promotional premiums and discounts offered 
by  transportation  companies,  hotels  and  similar  service  providers  –  such  as,  for  example, 
“frequent fliers” program benefits – if they are offered to travelers generally and STS has not 
specified to the contrary.  

 
 
 
 
  
 
• 

Having a significant investment in or working for or serving as a consultant or advisor to any 
other firm or person (even in a self-employed capacity) if that firm or person is a competitor (or 
actively planning to become one), a supplier or a customer of STS.  

In addition, neither we nor any member of our immediate family* shall accept membership on the board 
of directors of any competitor, supplier of material or services, or customer of STS without prior written 
approval of STS’s Board of Directors.  

If a director has a personal interest in a matter before the Board, the director will disclose the interest to 
the  full  Board  prior  to  discussion  as  to  such  matter  or  deliberation,  excuse  himself  or  herself  from 
participation  in  the  discussion,  and  will  not  vote  on  the  matter.  Personal  interests  may  include 
commercial,  industrial,  banking,  consulting,  legal,  accounting,  charitable  and  financial  relationships, 
among others.  

*For purposes of the Code, “immediate family” means your spouse, parent, children, siblings, mothers- 
and  fathers-in-law,  sons-  and  daughters-in-law,  brothers-  and  sisters-in-law,  and  anyone  (other  than 
domestic  employees)  who  shares  your  home.  This  definition  does  not  apply  to  the  use  of  the  term 
“immediate family” for purposes of medical coverage and other benefit plan purposes.  

Seek Help in Resolving Questions under this Conflict of Interest Policy.  

Conflicts  are  not  always  clear-cut.  If  an  employee,  officer,  or  director  becomes  aware  of  a  conflict, 
potential conflict, or has a question as to a potential conflict, the employee, officer, or director should 
consult with higher levels of management or the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and/or follows the 
procedures for reporting any misconduct.  Sensitive or difficult questions should be  referred to an STS 
lawyer.  

We Comply with Laws and Regulations for Transnational Business 

We operate our business in compliance with all applicable laws. When we make significant business 
investments or acquisitions, we take into account sustainability, compliance and other ethical 
considerations.  

We comply with all Import Control Laws 

It is STS’s policy to comply with all laws and regulations that apply to its imports into any country in 
which we operate and import materials into. In addition to STS Logistics and Accounting Departments; it 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is the responsibility of every business unit to implement and maintain the necessary internal controls for 
import compliance, exercise reasonable care in all import activities and make best efforts to assure 
appropriate personnel understand and comply with all import laws of the relative country.  

Import laws govern many aspects of our imports, including admissibility of imports, classification and 
valuation for duty purposes, country of origin marking, environmental reporting, security, eligibility for 
special preference programs (e.g., Security clearance on some communication devices by the Local 
Telecommunication Regulatory Commission or by the US Customs Security Clearance), and records 
retention.  

STS is committed to strict compliance with all import laws and regulations and expects all employees to 
implement this commitment in STS’s business operations. Implementation will be achieved through 
organizational commitment, allocation of sufficient human and capital resources, and appropriate 
oversight and corrective actions.  

STS is also committed to all aspects of its Vendors and Suppliers who are mandated by their country’s 
Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, under which STS has committed to ensure the safety and 
security of all imports from the point of origin to the point of final destination and to corresponding 
programs in other jurisdictions.  

We Comply with All Export Control Laws 

Many of STS Vendors, Partners and Suppliers are originating from The United States and are mandated 
to comply with laws and regulations that restrict exports of certain products, services, and technologies 
to certain countries or buyers (Boycott).  STS honors these Vendors boycotts and will ensure that the 
items they import from the vendors are lawfully exported and are sold to the country and individual to 
whom they are intended.  

In practice, the boycott that most commonly presents problems is the Secondary boycott where a 
dealing with a company that deals with a boycott country is in question.  For STS own generated 
products or Services; we do not participate in or Comply with Secondary Boycotts that are against the 
Local Government’s Policy, Including the US or the EU Boycott of some Arab Countries or Middle Eastern 
Countries.  We also do not comply with Secondary Boycott of dealing with companies that deal with a 
direct boycott country of our Vendors. 

The laws governing foreign boycotts are complex, and requests for compliance with a foreign boycott or 
certification of compliance must be reported even if compliance with the foreign boycott is permitted by 
law.  

To comply with these laws, every group, division, and operation must Ensure that international sales, 
order entry, traffic, documentation, and credit personnel – who are likely to come in contact with 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
requests for compliance with foreign boycotts – are instructed about how to comply with these laws and 
that they follow STS’s procedures relating to these laws.  

We Do Not Pay Bribes or Make Improper Payments 

STS funds shall not be used to make payments that violate any applicable laws or regulations. While this 
policy summarizes the most commonly applied laws and regulations, they can be ambiguous or difficult 
to interpret. If you are uncertain about any payment, consult your manager or an STS lawyer.  

We Do Not Engage in Commercial Bribery 

We do not pay bribes, kickbacks, or similar payments or gratuities to people or organizations in order to 
gain or keep business or to direct business to any other person or company. This policy applies both to 
payments made directly and to payments made through an intermediary.  

We Do Not Pay Bribes or Kickbacks to Government Agencies, Employees, or Officials  

We do not directly or indirectly offer or give any money, gift, favour, entertainment, loan, gratuity, or 
other item of value to any employee of any government that regulates or does business with STS. As 
long as there is no violation of the rules or standards of conduct of STS or the recipient’s organization, 
employees of STS businesses doing business with or regulated by the local government agencies are 
permitted to provide meals and refreshments that are reasonable and directly related to business 
discussions. We do not make any direct or indirect payments – including STS funds, personal funds or 
anything else of value – to any government official, employee, political party or candidate of any country 
in order:  

     • To obtain or retain business for STS or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates; or  

     • To direct business to any other person.  

We also do not authorize such payments to be made through a third person if we know or are 
substantially certain that any portion of the payment will be used to pay a government official or 
employee, or political party or candidate.  

STS does not operate in any countries in which bribery of government or political officials is lawful. In 
addition, Jordan for example and some other countries have enacted laws making bribery of 
government officials a crime. At STS, we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In particular, we 
do not engage in violations of foreign law even if local business practices seem to ignore the law. Even 
when they are not intended to obtain, retain, or direct business, we do not provide gifts and 
entertainment to government officials and employees of any country beyond the extent to which they 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are extended by normal custom in the relevant country. The value of such gifts or entertainment should 
not exceed US$100 per person without the prior approval of management.  

We Use Special Care in Appointing Sales Representatives, Distributors, and Consultants 

Commission or fee arrangements may be made only with firms or persons serving as bona fide 
commercial sales representatives, distributors, or consultants (jointly “representatives”). These 
arrangements may not be entered into with any firm in which a government official or employee is 
known or believed to have an interest if STS conducts or may seek to conduct business with the 
government agency to which the official or employee is connected. All business units must investigate 
the character and reputation of each proposed representative to determine their appropriateness prior 
to the engagement.  

We pay our representatives by above-board means. Payments must never be made in cash, and they 
must be made to the representative’s business office in the country in which it is located (and not to a 
foreign office or foreign bank account).  

All commission and fee arrangements with representatives shall be covered by a written agreement. The 
agreement must contain, in addition to other normal terms and conditions:  

• 
• 

• 

A clear description of the services to be provided;  
The commitment by the representative to abide by applicable law, including a representation that 
no prohibited payments have been or will be made or promised; and  
A statement that STS may be required to disclose the existence and terms and conditions of the 
contract to authorized governmental agencies.  

The amount of commission or fee to be paid to a representative for assistance in securing orders and for 
after-sales service must be reasonable in light of normal practice for the industry, the line of products 
involved, and the commercial services to be rendered. Sales representative and distributor agreements 
are available from STS lawyers.  

We Respect the Political Process and Comply with Laws Governing Political Contributions 

We comply fully with all laws regulating corporate and employee participation in public affairs, subject 
to the procedures set out below. STS encourages employees to exercise their rights and assume their 
obligations as citizens.  

Where applicable law permits corporations to make contributions to candidates for public office, such 
contributions must receive prior written approval from the Board of Directors.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These requirements pertain only to political contributions to be made with STS corporate funds. They do 
not restrict personal decisions by STS employees to make lawful personal contributions on their own. 
STS encourages this type of participation. Employees must not, however, be reimbursed by expense 
accounts or otherwise for such personal contributions.  

In some countries, political contributions by STS or its subsidiaries can be authorized only when 
permitted by applicable law, after prior written approval by the Board of Directors.  

We Deal Lawfully and Fairly in Government Procurement 

We conduct business with the governments of the countries in which we operate in accordance with 
high ethical standards. We recognize a special obligation to safeguard and preserve the good will and 
trust of those governments, their customers, and their taxpayers. Although fundamental principles of 
honesty are constants in all of STS’s businesses, a business that serves governments has additional 
requirements regarding the appearance and documentation of fairness and integrity.  

In addition to complying with applicable law and with the Code, we vigorously seek to control costs in 
accordance with local government procurement standards and regulations to obtain items for 
government contracts of appropriate quality at the best possible price.  

We Keep Accurate Company Records, Make Full, Fair, Accurate and Timely Disclosures 

We make full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosures in reports that STS files under 
applicable laws, rules and regulations and in other public communications. Dishonest reporting, both 
inside and outside the company will not be tolerated. This includes reporting or organizing information 
in an attempt to mislead or misinform. No entry will be made on the company’s books and records that 
intentionally hides or disguises the true nature of any transaction.  

STS has adopted controls to ensure the safeguarding of STS assets and the accuracy of its financial 
records and reports in accordance with internal needs and requirements of applicable laws and 
regulations. These established accounting practices and procedures must be followed to assure the 
complete and accurate recording of all transactions. All employees, within their area of responsibility, 
are expected to adhere to these procedures, as directed by the appropriate STS Manager.  

No employee or director may interfere with or seek to improperly influence, directly or indirectly, the 
auditing of STS’s financial records. Violation of these provisions shall result in disciplinary action up to 
and including termination and may also subject the violator to substantial civil and criminal liability.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an employee becomes aware of any improper transaction or accounting practice, he or she must 
immediately report the matter as described in Section 4 of this Code.  

Our obligation to record and report information accurately and honestly also applies to the accurate 
reporting of time worked, business expenses incurred and other business-related activities.  

We Manage Our Records Properly 

To operate effectively and efficiently, records must be managed properly. Documents needed for 
ongoing business or required by law must be retained, while all other documents should be discarded. If 
excess records are not discarded, the costs and distraction of records maintenance escalates continually.  

Documents should be discarded on an ongoing basis as they are no longer needed, and a general review 
of documents as to whether they are still needed is to be conducted at least once per year. In general, 
no document should be retained for more than two years unless it is needed for ongoing business or a 
law requires its retention.  

Those who are unsure about the need to keep particular documents should consult with their records 
administrator or supervisor, so that a judgment can be made as to the likelihood that the documents 
will be needed.  

Reporting and Information Resources 

You are required to promptly and accurately report any violations of the Code that come to your 
attention to your manager, Ethics Office, human resources manager or a member of the Board of 
Directors. If you are uncomfortable reporting a violation to these individuals or wish to report a violation 
anonymously, write to:  

STS Ethics Office  

Ms. Rasha I. Atallah 

Tel: ++96265802626 ext. 1110 

Shaban’s Building 

Amman, Jordan – 11195 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Or: STS Ethics Response Line: ++962795767989 

Or: STS Ethics Email: ethics@sts.com.jo 

You may do so without fear of retaliation.  

If you have any questions or doubt about any aspect of the Code, consult your STS Manager or the STS 
Ethics Office or another appropriate STS person.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS Policies Manual 

Office Environment/Equipment/Facilities 

V1 ‐ 2017 

 
 
 
 
CHAPTER  12: OFFICE ENVIRONMENT/EQUIPMENT/FACILITIES 

12  OFFICE ENVIRONMENT/EQUIPMENT/FACILITIES 

A  WORK AREA 

1. 

It  is  Company  policy  to  furnish  a  safe  working  place  for  the  employees,  and  keep  them  out  of  danger.  
Employees are expected to follow the rules and safety regulations within the work place. 

2.  Employees should be considerate of others and maintain quiet and orderly working conditions.  All desks and 
work areas should be kept in good order.  When leaving the office at the end of the day or on an assignment, 
all documentation should be secured in a safe, filing cabinet or other appropriate place.  Items used during 
the day should be returned to their proper places or disposed of appropriately.  Extra items supplied should 
be returned to the designated area. 

B 

COMPANY ASSETS 

1.  Employees should safeguard Company assets and use them appropriately; otherwise the Company will take 

disciplinary action. 

2.  Company assets, stationary, computers or software, should not be taken home without prior approval from 

the employee’s Manager.  Otherwise, the employee will be disciplined or terminated. 

3.  Any Company assets given to employees to use during employment, should be given back to the Company 

upon service termination or whenever asked to. 

4. 

If  an  employee  is  responsible  for Company  keys,  he/she  should  ensure  the safety  of  them,  and  use  them 
properly and inform their Manager within 24 hours in case of loss.  They should inform the administration in 
writing. 

C 

PERSONAL PROPERTY 

1.  Employees are responsible for safeguarding their personal effects in the office or while on assignment.  The 

Company does not accept responsibility for the loss of personal effects, including cash. 

D 

ELECTRONIC MAIL PRIVACY 

1.  The electronic mail  system, training materials,  notices and related documentation are the property of STS 
and are intended for business use only.  Authorized personnel other than the sender or addressee may not 
access electronic mail messages.  Reading mail messages by authorized personnel should be limited to need.  
Access  to  Web  chats,  personal  messaging  and  personal  web  sites  are  prohibited  during  Company  time. 
Employees who violate this policy are subject to disciplinary action, including dismissal. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E 

FAXES AND MAILS 

1.  Employees should use the most cost‐effective way of sending business information.  Electronic mail should 

be the first choice for inter‐office delivery unless other factors require the use of fax or courier. 

2.  Fax machines cannot be used for personal use without prior permission. 

F 

SUPPLIES 

1.  An assortment of frequently used office supplies, such as paper, pencil, pens, erasers, etc., is available in the 
storeroom.  All new employees are given basic office supplies upon starting work.  Any supplies not usually 
stocked should be requested from the Human Resources Department before being ordered. 

G 

PHOTOCOPIERS 

1.  Office photocopiers should not be used for personal photocopying materials without prior permission. 

H 

COMPUTERS 

1.  Use of the computer system is provided for business purposes only.  Prior permission is required for personal 

use. 

2.  The security and safety of STS office equipment is of utmost importance and employees are required to keep 
equipment and facilities safe at all times.  Never give information to anyone regarding office access who is 
not an authorized STS user. 

3.  Laptop computers must be put away in a locked cabinet at the end of each day, or carried home.  Employees 

will be held personally responsible for the loss of a computer assigned to him/her. 

I 

REPORTING THEFT OR LOSS OF PROPERTY 

1.  Upon discovering a loss, the department or employee concerned, should contact the administration team in 
their relevant locations to verify insurance coverage and to request instructions to file an insurance claim, if 
applicable.  Nothing should be replaced without prior approval of Management. 

J 

PERSONAL TELEPHONE CALLS 

1. 

It  is  appreciated  that  everyone  needs  to  make  an  occasional  personal  telephone  call  but  STS  requests 
employees not to abuse this privilege.  Keep personal calls to a minimum and keep them brief. 

K 

INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE CALLS 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  The nature of work may include international phone calls related to work only.  This service cannot be used 
for personal reasons.  In case of proven misuse, the employee involved will have a written warning and the 
amount deducted from his/her salary. 

L 

SMOKING 

1.  Smoking inside the office is not permitted at any time.  Employees who wish to smoke can do so outside the 
office or in the designated  smoking  area.  It is important to be considerate towards the non‐smokers  and 
realize the harmful effect nicotine has on the health of all employees.  Employees caught smoking inside the 
building except in the designated smoking area will be subject to disciplinary measures. 

M 

LIFTING OF HEAVY OBJECTS 

1. 

If an employee’s job requires them to lift heavy objects, they should be aware of methods and precautions 
to be followed.   An  employee  should  never lift  heavy objects exceeding  his/her  ability  – ask  for  help,  the 
Company  always  encourages  this.    In  case  of  injury,  the  employee  must  inform  his/her  Manager  and  HR 
immediately. 

N 

CHEMCIAL MATERIAL 

1. 

If  the  nature  of  the  employee’s  job  requires  them  to handle  chemical  material  such  as  solvents,  cleaning 
products, gaseous  substances or any oil by‐product, he/she must make  sure they know how to use them, 
wash their hands after use and always wear protective gloves before using such material. 

O 

CAR PARK 

1.  STS  has  limited  parking  spots  in  each  location  and  so  cannot  assign  designated  parking  spots  for  each 
employee  at  STS.      Those  spots  are  assigned  to  individuals  based  on  seniority  and/or  length  of  service.  
Wherever possible, STS tries to provide alternatives to parking as much as it possibly can. However, where 
reserved and designated parking are not available, it is left to STS employees to secure their own parking.  

2. 

In Jordan, Management and some company employees have designated parking areas.  Basement car parking 
area  is  designated  to  employees  whose  ranks  start  from  E  and  above.  Parking  spots  are  granted  to  the 
employee  based  on  years  of  experience  at  STS;  those  who  have  been  with  the  company  longer  have  the 
priority to being assigned a parking space. Another parking‐lot next to STS building in Amman is designated 
to all staff members and renting a spot costs 10 JOD per month.   

P 

PERSONAL MATTERS 

1.  Time off is given to take care of a personal matter, but this should be preceded by submitting a leave on the 

MenaMe system and should not have a negative effect on the employee’s work. 

Q 

PERSONAL POSSESSIONS 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Money, clothes, and all valuables should be kept in safe places, where they will not get damaged or stolen.  If 
an employee loses something while on Company premises or in Company vehicles, they should inform his/her 
Manager.   They will  try to find  it.  If an employee  finds  something  that does not belong  to him/her,  they 
should report it to their Manager.  The Company is not held responsible for the loss of personal possessions. 

R 

PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS AND INFORMATION 

1.  An employee has no right to make any declaration on behalf of the Company without prior approval from 

their direct supervisor or Business Unit Manager. 

S 

MOBILE VENDORS 

1. 

It is totally prohibited to collect money using the Company name, or to sell or send or distribute bills or reports 
on  Company  assets.    This  is  to  avoid  deliberate  or  un‐deliberate  involvement  in  Company  interests.    Any 
employee engaging in such acts will be subject to disciplinary procedures.  The Company, as a general rule, 
does not limit under any situation, or infringe on the right to freedom of speech or expression of opinion.  
Such actions are allowed during break time as long as it is not in contradiction with the general acceptable 
code of conduct and rules and regulations of the Company.  Any person – not an employee of the Company 
– is  strictly prohibited  from collecting money, selling  or sending  or distributing  bills  or publications  within 
Company premises under any conditions or circumstances. 

T 

PURCHASING 

1. 

2. 

In case of a need to buy things related to work, employees should submit a purchase order to his/her Manager 
to obtain the necessary permission by submitting a purchase order using TWE for purchases in Jordan.  

In  countries  where  the  online  purchasing  tool  doesn’t  exist.  Employees  are  expected  to  inform  HR  or 
Accounting (in locations where there is no dedicated HR person) to make the purchase order.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Training & Development 

V1-2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 15: TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 

The Management believes that continuous emphasis must be placed on training for the professional and 
personal development of the employees thus contributing to the overall growth of the Company. Through 
training, the Company will ensure that employees can cope effectively with the changing environment 
and help to achieve the corporate objectives effectively and efficiently.   

A PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT / ADVANCEMENT/TRAINING 

All employees will be given the training necessary for them to perform their duties effectively. In return 
for the expense incurred by STS for placing an employee in a training course, employees are asked to sign 
a declaration committing to work for a period of 1-3 years following completion of the training course 
depending on the cost of the course. In cases where an employee leaves before the completion of the 
commitment, he/she will be required to reimburse the Company for all expenses incurred as set out in 
the declaration. Employees should be committed to making the most of training opportunities and they 
are  expected  to  pass  on  their  knowledge/training to  their  colleagues,  either  formally or  informally as 
appropriate.  The  length  of  the  commitment varies  depending  on  the  total  cost  of  the  training  course 
(travel, accommodation, and training costs) and is as shown in the following table for each location STS 
operates in 

Training 
Value Band 

1 

2 

3 

Branch 

Jordan 

KSA 

UAE 

Bahrain 

Palestine 

Jordan 

KSA 

UAE 

Bahrain 

Palestine 

Jordan 

KSA 

UAE 

Bahrain 

Palestine 

From  

0 JD 

0 SAR 

0 AED 

0 BHD 

0 ILS 

501 JD 

2500 SAR 

2500 AED 

266 BHD 

2711 ILS 

1001 JD 

5001 SAR 

5001 AED 

531 BHD 

5421 ILS 

To 

500 JD 

2499 SAR 

2499 AED 

265 BHD 

2710 IL 

1000 JD 

5000 SAR 

5000 AED 

530 BHD 

5420 IL 

4000 JD 

20000 SAR 

20,000 AED 

2126 BHD 

21680 ILS 

Length of 
Commitment 

No Commitment 

1 Year Commitment 

2 Years Commitment 

 
 
 
 
4 

Jordan 

KSA 

UAE 

Bahrain 

Palestine 

> 4000 JD 

> 20,000 SAR 

> 20,000 AED 

> 2126 BHD 

> 21,681 ILS 

3 Years Commitment 

In the case where an employee leaves the company before the end of their commitments, they 
will  be  expected  to  reimburse  the  company  for  training  costs.  Commitment  values  will  be 
depreciated based full year intervals and the Band in which the Training Value falls as shown 
in the below schedule 

Training Value Band 

Commitment 

%age of Value to be Reimbursed 

Band 
1 
2 
3 
4 

# of Years 
0 
1 
2 
3 

Year 0 - <1 
0.00% 
100.00% 
100.00% 
100.00% 

Year 1 - < 2 
0.00% 
0.00% 
50.00% 
66.67% 

Year 2 - < 3 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
33.33% 

Also, please find below some examples 

Value 

Training 
End 
Date 

Commitment 
Period in 
Years 

Last 
Working 
Day 

Period 
from 
Training to 
Last 
working 
day 

Full Years 
worked 
from 
Training 
Date 

Reimbursement 
%age 

Reimbursement 
Value 

JOD 750 

01/02/17 

BHD 150 

01/02/17 

SAR 3,000 

01/02/17 

JOD 5,000 

01/02/17 

AED 25,000  01/02/17 

1 

1 

2 

3 

3 

15/01/18 

0.95 

01/08/17 

0.50 

01/06/18 

1.33 

15/03/18 

1.11 

18/12/19 

2.88 

0 

0 

1 

2 

2 

100% 

100% 

50% 

66% 

33% 

JOD 750 

BHD 150 

SAR 1,500 

JOD 3,300 

 AED 8,250 

•  Once nominated, attendance is mandatory. Refusal to attend a training program will negatively 

affect an employee’s career progression with the Company. 

•  Successful  completion  of  a  training  program  will  not  automatically  qualify  the  concerned 

employee for promotion or re-assignment. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

STS Code of Ethics 

V1-2018 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
CHAPTER 5: STS CODE OF ETHICS 

Letter from the Chairman of the Board 

Introduction to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  

At STS, we are committed to conducting our business with honesty and integrity and complying with all 
applicable laws. STS’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (“Code”) exemplifies our dedication to these 
high business standards. The Code summarizes the legal and ethical principles that we follow in our daily 
work and applies these principles to our policies and practices.  

STS’s commitment to the Code starts at the top of the corporation. The STS Ethics Office reports to the 
Board of Directors and assesses STS’s overall compliance with applicable law and the Code, oversees the 
compliance training program and considers the appropriate response to significant compliance matters 
and legal developments.  

Laws and standards vary in different countries and cultures, but, as a regional company, our common goal 
and continuing commitment is to maintain equally high standards wherever we operate. Some parts of 
the Code focus on United States laws because the majority of STS vendors are from the US and we have 
a  high  degree  of  business  regulation  to  be  maintained.  However,  this  U.S.  focus  does  not  reduce  our 
obligation and commitment  to  also comply with the applicable laws of countries  in which we operate 
and/or conduct business.  

The obligations in the Code apply to:  

• STS Corporation, its  subsidiaries,  affiliates, joint ventures and all other entities, that, in each 
case, are directly or indirectly controlled or managed by STS;  
• The employees and directors of these entities (to the extent applicable to their work for STS)  
• Suppliers and contractors in their work on behalf of STS.  

All  of  us,  including  all  employees,  officers,  directors  and  others  who  are  bound  by  the  Code,  are 
responsible  for  becoming  familiar  with  and  abiding  by  the  Code.  In  addition,  STS  group,  division  and 
operations managers and supervisors are accountable for compliance with – and enforcement of – the 
Code by the operations they manage. Failure to carry out these responsibilities may lead to disciplinary 
action, including discharge.  

You are also required to promptly and accurately report any violations of the Code that come to your 
attention. Sections 3 and 4 of the Code contain specific information on fulfilling your reporting obligations. 
Reporting and information resources are also provided at the end of the Code. The Code is not intended 
to cover every possible ethical or legal situation. Wisdom, discretion and sound judgment should guide 
everyone.  
We need your commitment to help maintain the moral, ethical and law-abiding heritage that has been so 
important to STS. I know I can count on it.  

Ramzi Zeine 
Chairman of the Board 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We Are Committed to Ethical Behaviour 

Commitment to Ethics. 

Ethical behaviour is an individual responsibility. Behaviour reflecting high ethical standards is expected of 
all directors, employees and others who are bound by the Code, regardless of position or location.  

No director, officer, manager  or supervisor has the authority to violate or require conduct  by another 
employee or any other person that violates the Code, other STS policies or applicable law.  

The obligations in the Code apply to STS Corporation, its subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures and all other 
entities, that, in each case, are directly or indirectly controlled or managed by STS, the employees and 
directors of these entities (to the extent applicable to their work for STS) and suppliers and contractors in 
their work on behalf of STS.  

Management Responsibility for Ethics  

All STS Officers, managers and supervisors are accountable for the actions of the employees who report 
to them and responsible for seeing that the Code, other STS policies and applicable laws are followed.  

They must:  

• 

Inform their employees  about company policies, including those dealing with legal and ethical 
behaviour. 

•  Ensure  that  appropriate  ongoing  employee  training  occurs  and  that  violators  of  the  Code  are 

appropriately disciplined. 

•  Avoid hiring individuals who have a propensity to violate any applicable law or rules of the type 

embodied in the Code; and 

•  Maintain  a  work  environment  where  constructive,  frank,  and  open  discussion  about  ethics  is 

• 

encouraged and expected       without fear of retaliation. 
In this effort, managers should seek and will receive support from STS’s Human Resources and 
the Ethics Office. 

 We Comply with the Code, Other STS Policies, and All Applicable Laws 

We comply with the Code, other STS policies and all applicable laws in conducting our business.  

There are countries where common trading or negotiating practices are based on codes of conduct that 
are less stringent or different than the Code. In such countries, employees should follow the Code, except 
for variances that are permitted by applicable law and are based on good ethical and business judgment.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The relevant division manager or General Managers of STS Corporation must approve any such variance 
in writing if no division manager is available. Contact an STS lawyer if you have any questions about the 
application  of  the  law  of  any  country,  about  the  Code,  or  about  the  relation  or  any  apparent  conflict 
between them.  

In the unusual circumstances where a waiver of the Code would be appropriate for an executive officer 
or director, such waiver must be approved by the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board and 
promptly disclosed as required by applicable laws and regulations. In the case of all other employees, only 
a corporate officer, in conjunction with the Board of Directors, may grant such a waiver.  

We Fulfil the STS Ethics Office Program 

STS Ethics Office 

The STS Ethics Office will be headed by an Ethics/Compliance Officer and reports directly to the CEO and 
Board of Directors. Ms. Rasha Atallah is selected as STS Ethics Officer starting August 2018.  The Ethics 
Office/Officer  assesses  STS’s  overall  compliance  with  applicable  law  and  the  Code,  oversees  the 
compliance training program, and considers the appropriate response to significant compliance matters 
and  legal  developments.  In  addition  to  the  resources  that  can  be  provided  for  asking  questions  and 
reporting  suspected  violations  of  the  Code,  employees  are  encouraged  to  contact  the  Ethics  Office 
through the address below:  

STS Ethics Office  

Ms. Rasha I. Atallah 

Shaban’s Building 

Amman, Jordan - 11195 

Or: STS Ethics Response Line: ++962795767989 

Or: STS Ethics Email: ethics@sts.com.jo 

We Report Suspected Non-Compliance 

Any employee who learns of a suspected violation of the Code must immediately report it by following 
the procedure below. Employees are required to come forward with any such information without regard 
to the identity or position of the suspected offender. 

STS  will  treat  the  information  in  a  confidential  manner  and  will  ensure  that  no  acts  of  retribution  or 
retaliation will be taken against anyone for making a report in good faith. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Compliance Reporting Procedure  

Employee Report: Any employee who learns of a violation of the Code must immediately report it.  

Investigation:  It  is  STS’s  policy  and  intent  to  investigate  any  reported  violation of  the  Code,  other  STS 
policy, or applicable law, and to take appropriate action, as determined by STS, based on the results of 
the  investigation.  Reports  of  violations  of  accounting,  accounting  controls  and  audit  matters  will  be 
investigated under the supervision of the Board of Directors.  

All other violations will be investigated under the supervision of the Ethics Office. Employees are expected 
to cooperate in the investigation of reported violations.  

Confidentiality: The investigators will not disclose the identity of anyone who reports a suspected violation 
or who participates in the investigation. Employees should be aware that the Ethics Office is obligated to 
act in the best interests of STS and do not act as personal representatives or lawyers for the employees.  

Protection against Retaliation: Retaliation in any form against an individual, who in good faith reports a 
violation  of  the  Code,  or  who  assists  in  the  investigation  of  a  reported  violation,  is  prohibited.  Every 
employee may report such violations without fear of retaliation by co-workers, supervisors or others that 
are the subject of the report.  

Discipline for Non-compliance  

Failure to comply with the Code will result in disciplinary action ranging from a reprimand to dismissal.  

Civil or criminal violations may be prosecuted.  

We Value and Safeguard Our Relationships with Customers  

Most Valued Supplier  

A primary objective at STS is to become our customers’ most valued supplier.  

We achieve this objective by providing products and services that best meet customer needs and doing 
so in a manner that creates a lasting bond of cooperation and trust.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We treat customers fairly and honestly at all times in a manner that conforms to all applicable laws and is 
consistent  with  good  business  practice.  We  do  not  make  false  or  misleading  remarks  about  other 
companies or their employees or products, including our competitors.  

Safe and High-Quality Products  

We conduct business with a high regard for the health and safety of those using our products and services. 
This regard assures safety and strengthens the  bond between STS and our customers. Each employee 
plays  a  critical  role  in  ensuring  the  quality  and  safety  of  STS  products,  from  design  through 
implementation, ongoing improvements, and customer support.  

We Value and Safeguard Our Employee Relationships 

Respect for Employees  

STS is committed to respecting human dignity. Trust, respect, and ethical business conduct are essential 
to achieving and maintaining sound relationships among our employees. Basic to these relationships is 
the recognition of the personal value and contribution of every employee. At STS, we value the diversity 
of  our  employees,  and  we  judge  and  treat  every  employee  with  dignity  and  respect.  Consistent  with 
applicable laws of the location, employees and applicants for employment will be judged on the basis of 
their performance and qualifications without regard to race, creed, gender, religion, national origin, age 
or disability. Sexual harassment of any type is prohibited.  

Child Labour/Forced Labour  

We are opposed to any form of harmful child labour and forced or compulsory labour. It is STS policy to 
prohibit harmful child labour or the use of forced or compulsory labour in our workplaces and we expect 
our suppliers and contractors to do the same.  

Respect for Employees’ Privacy  

STS respects the privacy of its employees, former employees and job applicants and will share employee 
information only for business reasons consistent with applicable law. This is not inconsistent with STS’s 
right to monitor electronic communications.  

Safe and Healthy Working Environment  

Maintaining a safe and healthy work environment is integral to the operation of our business. Accidents 
harm our employees and undermine the effective performance of the business, as well as the trust of the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
communities in which we operate. We are responsible for preventing accidents by maintaining a healthy 
work  environment,  by  following  safe  procedures  and  practices,  and  by  using  all  prescribed  personal 
protective equipment where applicable to our business.  

No Substance Abuse  

We do not use, sell, purchase, transfer, manufacture, possess, or permit to be present in our system any 
illegal  or  unauthorized  drugs,  synthetic/designer  drugs,  or  any  controlled  substance  (except  legally 
prescribed drugs), nor do we abuse prescribed drugs, while on STS premises, engaged in STS business, or 
operating STS equipment.  

In addition, we do not use, sell, manufacture, purchase, transfer or possess alcohol in an STS facility or on 
company  premises.  We  are  not  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  while  performing  STS  business  or  job-
related duties or while operating STS equipment.  

We Comply with Health, Safety, Security, and Environmental Laws 

We  are  committed  to  protecting  the  environment  and  the  health  and  safety  of  our  employees,  our 
families, our communities, and the public through full compliance with all applicable laws and continuous 
improvement of our performance on environmental, health and safety matters.  

To  meet  STS  environmental  standards,  every  STS  owned-and-operated  facility  must  demonstrate 
compliance with all public health and environmental laws pertaining to its operations and consistent with 
applicable law.  

STS’s Policy on Health, Safety, Security, and the Environment  

STS embraces our responsibility to protect the environment and the health, safety and security of our 
employees, their families, our communities, and the public, as a core value of our business sustainability.  

Transparently  promoting  health,  safety,  security,  and  environment  is  the  responsibility  of  all  STS 
employees in the countries in which we operate.  

STS’s health, safety, security, and environment Guiding Principles mandate that we:  

•  Pursue  a  business  strategy  that  builds  on  sustainable  innovation,  operations  and  business 
practices as we seek to grow our businesses and improve the quality of people’s lives everywhere. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Openly conduct our business in a manner that is protective of public and occupational health, the 

environment and employee safety.  

•  Strive to eliminate all accidents and injuries, with an objective of achieving injury-free workplaces.  
•  Comply with all relative laws and regulations.  
•  Actively  engage  with  our  employees,  suppliers,  customers,  neighbours,  and  shareholders  to 

ensure continuous improvement. 

•  Engage in recycling programs where appropriate. 

We Value and Safeguard Our Relationships with Suppliers and Contractors  

We seek to maintain our reputation as a dependable customer by being equitable and reliable in dealings 
with suppliers. We will treat suppliers and contractors fairly and honestly at all times and in a manner 
conforming to all applicable laws.  

We expect our suppliers to share our commitment to sustainability and to producing safe and high-quality 
products.  

We expect our suppliers to conduct themselves in an ethical and responsible manner that supports the 
protection of and respect for human dignity in their workplaces and is consistent with STS’s standards.  

We Protect Our Property and the Property of Others 

We are responsible for the protection of STS assets, including physical property, intangible assets, and all 
forms of electronic documents and files, business communications, including electronic mail, telephone, 
Internet and Intranet, against loss, theft, and misuse. STS assets are intended for use for proper company 
purposes and may not be sold, loaned, given away or disposed of without proper authorization. We may 
make  personal  use  of  such  assets  on  an  occasional  and  limited  basis  only  as  long  as  STS’s  policies  on 
Acceptable  Use  of  IT  Resources  and  other  relevant  policies  are  followed,  there  are  no  measurable 
increased costs and other employees are not distracted as a result of the use. In addition, use of such 
assets for personal gain is prohibited.  

We Use our Electronic Communications and Internet Access for Company Purposes  

STS’s electronic communications and Internet access systems are important tools through which we 
conduct much of our company’s business. These communication mechanisms and devices include e-
mail, fax and instant messaging systems. STS reserves the right to monitor the use of its Internet 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
resources and electronic communications and to investigate potential improprieties. Users have no 
expectation of privacy in their use of STS communications systems beyond that required by law.  

STS reserves the right to filter Internet content that it considers offensive or inappropriate. All use of 
Internet access and electronic communications will be in accordance with applicable laws, regulations 
and STS policies and shall not be used to:  

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

Violate copyright, trade secret, patent or other intellectual property rights.  
Reveal company confidential information via social media networks or otherwise;  
Threaten, deceive, defraud, harass, defame, intimidate or offend others or otherwise violate 
the privacy of any person;  
Attempt to gain illegal access into another computer network or system;  
Create, execute, store or knowingly propagate non-approved files, such as viruses, worms, 
password capturing  programs, Trojan horses, etc.  
Intentionally disrupt or disable STS resources nor prevent other authorized users from using 
these resources;  
Send chain letters, unauthorized solicitations or advertisements;  
Distribute STS business e-mail addresses of other employees for non-business purposes such 
as subscribing to private bulletin boards, shopping sites and any other non-business sites;  
Introduce sexually explicit or offensive materials into the workplace;  
Access pornography, gambling ventures, nonbusiness – related chat rooms or message 
boards; or  
Download files, unless they are necessary for business purposes and approved by the local IT 
department.  

Reporting Loss or Misuse of Property  

Any individual aware of the loss or misuse of any property must report it to his or her manager or 
supervisor or another appropriate STS person or contact the Ethics Office at the numbers and address 
provided. Any individual receiving such reports shall handle them in a careful and thorough manner.  

We Protect STS Confidential Information and Respect the Confidential Information of Others 

What is Confidential Information?  

Confidential information is information that is not generally known to the public and, if improperly 
disclosed, may be harmful to the company or its customers or suppliers, or helpful to its competitors.  

STS possesses valuable confidential information that has been developed over many years at 
considerable expense.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
This information includes proprietary information and trade secrets, such as sales, financial, scientific, 
economic or engineering information, customer lists, marketing plans, technical plans, formulas, 
methods, techniques, processes, procedures, programs and codes – regardless of how such information 
is stored, compiled or memorialized – for which STS takes reasonable measures to keep secret.  

How do we protect Confidential Information?  

We must protect the confidentiality of this information as carefully as we protect STS’s physical and 
other property and should routinely take precautions to keep the information from being disclosed. We 
do not share confidential information with, or authorize its use by Non-STS People or even with STS 
people who do not need to know the information, except as provided in contracts or legally mandated 
non-disclosure agreements.  

The obligation to protect STS’s confidential information continues even after employment at STS ceases. 
If it is appropriate for business reasons to share STS confidential information with a Non-STS Person 
and/or to allow a Non-STS Person to use the confidential information, a written confidentiality 
agreement is required to be executed in advance. STS HR Department can provide an agreement that is 
appropriate for the circumstances or one of STS designated lawyers can be contacted through the HR 
Department. We also keep the information in a secure, non-accessible location and transmit confidential 
information electronically only under secure conditions.  

Our obligation to protect confidential information extends to social media networking. STS employees 
should follow the same procedures for protecting company confidential information when engaging in 
any social networking activities.  

STS will vigorously pursue any suspected improper taking and/or use of its confidential information.  

If we discover a possible theft of STS confidential information, we must bring this discovery to our 
supervisor, the Ethics office or other appropriate person.  

We Gather Business Information Ethically and Lawfully 

As part of the daily execution of our business, we gather intelligence about competitors, suppliers, and 
customers in ethical and lawful ways. Most useful information is available from public sources through 
hard work and persistence. In seeking information from non-public sources, we act with honesty and 
integrity, and we do not seek, obtain, or use any information if it would violate any applicable law, 
including without limitation trade secret or other confidential information laws, and laws relating to 
confidential relationships between employers and employees.  

We protect confidential information provided on a confidential basis by others to STS – usually by 
following procedures described in agreements relating to the information.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We will not improperly take confidential information from others.  Individuals and companies who 
improperly disclose confidential information are subject to lawsuits for damages and injunctions, as well 
as criminal liability under signed Non-Disclosure Agreements, including financial penalties or even prison 
terms.  

We do not accept or misdirect communications or electronic documents not meant for us. Any receipt 
of such communications that appears to be in error and contains proprietary or sensitive information, 
such as a competitor’s marketing plans or client’s requirements should be reported to your supervisor 
and, in the case of electronic communications, to the IT department so that any appropriate action can 
be taken.  

We Avoid Conflicts of Interest 

We shall not engage in any activity that would create a conflict of interest between our personal interests 
(including the interests of our immediate families*) and the best interests of STS. We will make all business 
decisions in the best interests of STS. Any actual or potential conflict of interest between STS and us is 
prohibited unless specifically approved in writing by our supervisor (or in the case of a director, the Board 
of  Directors).  In  determining  the  presence  or  absence  of  a  conflict  of  interest,  the  following  will  be 
considered: the amount of our financial interest; our position with STS and the influence that we may 
have in business dealings that impact the matter; and all other relevant factors.  

Activities that could create a conflict of interest include:  

• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

Engaging in personal or any other Non-STS Business on company time or with company assets;  
self-employment  or  engaging  in  any  other  activity,  if  the  work  or  activity  affects  job 
performance or encroaches on         time or    attention that should be devoted to STS’s affairs;  
Disclosing or using for personal advantage confidential information gained by our position with 
STS.  
Disposing of STS assets for personal benefit. This policy applies both to physical assets – such as 
equipment, cars and trucks, and office supplies – and to services provided or paid for by STS, 
such as Internet access, electronic mail, telephone, fax and the internal mail system.  
Accepting loans or gifts of any kind, preferential treatment, or favours that place or appear to 
place  us or any member of our immediate  family*  under a stated or implied obligation to a 
competitor,  supplier  or  customer  of  STS.  For  example,  we  do  not  make  investments  in 
competitors, suppliers, or customers of any kind if the arrangement is not generally available to 
others or if a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest could arise because 
of our duties and responsibilities. We may accept promotional premiums and discounts offered 
by  transportation  companies,  hotels  and  similar  service  providers  –  such  as,  for  example, 
“frequent fliers” program benefits – if they are offered to travelers generally and STS has not 
specified to the contrary.  

 
 
 
 
  
 
• 

Having a significant investment in or working for or serving as a consultant or advisor to any 
other firm or person (even in a self-employed capacity) if that firm or person is a competitor (or 
actively planning to become one), a supplier or a customer of STS.  

In addition, neither we nor any member of our immediate family* shall accept membership on the board 
of directors of any competitor, supplier of material or services, or customer of STS without prior written 
approval of STS’s Board of Directors.  

If a director has a personal interest in a matter before the Board, the director will disclose the interest to 
the  full  Board  prior  to  discussion  as  to  such  matter  or  deliberation,  excuse  himself  or  herself  from 
participation  in  the  discussion,  and  will  not  vote  on  the  matter.  Personal  interests  may  include 
commercial,  industrial,  banking,  consulting,  legal,  accounting,  charitable  and  financial  relationships, 
among others.  

*For purposes of the Code, “immediate family” means your spouse, parent, children, siblings, mothers- 
and  fathers-in-law,  sons-  and  daughters-in-law,  brothers-  and  sisters-in-law,  and  anyone  (other  than 
domestic  employees)  who  shares  your  home.  This  definition  does  not  apply  to  the  use  of  the  term 
“immediate family” for purposes of medical coverage and other benefit plan purposes.  

Seek Help in Resolving Questions under this Conflict of Interest Policy.  

Conflicts  are  not  always  clear-cut.  If  an  employee,  officer,  or  director  becomes  aware  of  a  conflict, 
potential conflict, or has a question as to a potential conflict, the employee, officer, or director should 
consult with higher levels of management or the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and/or follows the 
procedures for reporting any misconduct.  Sensitive or difficult questions should be  referred to an STS 
lawyer.  

We Comply with Laws and Regulations for Transnational Business 

We operate our business in compliance with all applicable laws. When we make significant business 
investments or acquisitions, we take into account sustainability, compliance and other ethical 
considerations.  

We comply with all Import Control Laws 

It is STS’s policy to comply with all laws and regulations that apply to its imports into any country in 
which we operate and import materials into. In addition to STS Logistics and Accounting Departments; it 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is the responsibility of every business unit to implement and maintain the necessary internal controls for 
import compliance, exercise reasonable care in all import activities and make best efforts to assure 
appropriate personnel understand and comply with all import laws of the relative country.  

Import laws govern many aspects of our imports, including admissibility of imports, classification and 
valuation for duty purposes, country of origin marking, environmental reporting, security, eligibility for 
special preference programs (e.g., Security clearance on some communication devices by the Local 
Telecommunication Regulatory Commission or by the US Customs Security Clearance), and records 
retention.  

STS is committed to strict compliance with all import laws and regulations and expects all employees to 
implement this commitment in STS’s business operations. Implementation will be achieved through 
organizational commitment, allocation of sufficient human and capital resources, and appropriate 
oversight and corrective actions.  

STS is also committed to all aspects of its Vendors and Suppliers who are mandated by their country’s 
Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, under which STS has committed to ensure the safety and 
security of all imports from the point of origin to the point of final destination and to corresponding 
programs in other jurisdictions.  

We Comply with All Export Control Laws 

Many of STS Vendors, Partners and Suppliers are originating from The United States and are mandated 
to comply with laws and regulations that restrict exports of certain products, services, and technologies 
to certain countries or buyers (Boycott).  STS honors these Vendors boycotts and will ensure that the 
items they import from the vendors are lawfully exported and are sold to the country and individual to 
whom they are intended.  

In practice, the boycott that most commonly presents problems is the Secondary boycott where a 
dealing with a company that deals with a boycott country is in question.  For STS own generated 
products or Services; we do not participate in or Comply with Secondary Boycotts that are against the 
Local Government’s Policy, Including the US or the EU Boycott of some Arab Countries or Middle Eastern 
Countries.  We also do not comply with Secondary Boycott of dealing with companies that deal with a 
direct boycott country of our Vendors. 

The laws governing foreign boycotts are complex, and requests for compliance with a foreign boycott or 
certification of compliance must be reported even if compliance with the foreign boycott is permitted by 
law.  

To comply with these laws, every group, division, and operation must Ensure that international sales, 
order entry, traffic, documentation, and credit personnel – who are likely to come in contact with 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
requests for compliance with foreign boycotts – are instructed about how to comply with these laws and 
that they follow STS’s procedures relating to these laws.  

We Do Not Pay Bribes or Make Improper Payments 

STS funds shall not be used to make payments that violate any applicable laws or regulations. While this 
policy summarizes the most commonly applied laws and regulations, they can be ambiguous or difficult 
to interpret. If you are uncertain about any payment, consult your manager or an STS lawyer.  

We Do Not Engage in Commercial Bribery 

We do not pay bribes, kickbacks, or similar payments or gratuities to people or organizations in order to 
gain or keep business or to direct business to any other person or company. This policy applies both to 
payments made directly and to payments made through an intermediary.  

We Do Not Pay Bribes or Kickbacks to Government Agencies, Employees, or Officials  

We do not directly or indirectly offer or give any money, gift, favour, entertainment, loan, gratuity, or 
other item of value to any employee of any government that regulates or does business with STS. As 
long as there is no violation of the rules or standards of conduct of STS or the recipient’s organization, 
employees of STS businesses doing business with or regulated by the local government agencies are 
permitted to provide meals and refreshments that are reasonable and directly related to business 
discussions. We do not make any direct or indirect payments – including STS funds, personal funds or 
anything else of value – to any government official, employee, political party or candidate of any country 
in order:  

     • To obtain or retain business for STS or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates; or  

     • To direct business to any other person.  

We also do not authorize such payments to be made through a third person if we know or are 
substantially certain that any portion of the payment will be used to pay a government official or 
employee, or political party or candidate.  

STS does not operate in any countries in which bribery of government or political officials is lawful. In 
addition, Jordan for example and some other countries have enacted laws making bribery of 
government officials a crime. At STS, we comply with applicable laws and regulations. In particular, we 
do not engage in violations of foreign law even if local business practices seem to ignore the law. Even 
when they are not intended to obtain, retain, or direct business, we do not provide gifts and 
entertainment to government officials and employees of any country beyond the extent to which they 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are extended by normal custom in the relevant country. The value of such gifts or entertainment should 
not exceed US$100 per person without the prior approval of management.  

We Use Special Care in Appointing Sales Representatives, Distributors, and Consultants 

Commission or fee arrangements may be made only with firms or persons serving as bona fide 
commercial sales representatives, distributors, or consultants (jointly “representatives”). These 
arrangements may not be entered into with any firm in which a government official or employee is 
known or believed to have an interest if STS conducts or may seek to conduct business with the 
government agency to which the official or employee is connected. All business units must investigate 
the character and reputation of each proposed representative to determine their appropriateness prior 
to the engagement.  

We pay our representatives by above-board means. Payments must never be made in cash, and they 
must be made to the representative’s business office in the country in which it is located (and not to a 
foreign office or foreign bank account).  

All commission and fee arrangements with representatives shall be covered by a written agreement. The 
agreement must contain, in addition to other normal terms and conditions:  

• 
• 

• 

A clear description of the services to be provided;  
The commitment by the representative to abide by applicable law, including a representation that 
no prohibited payments have been or will be made or promised; and  
A statement that STS may be required to disclose the existence and terms and conditions of the 
contract to authorized governmental agencies.  

The amount of commission or fee to be paid to a representative for assistance in securing orders and for 
after-sales service must be reasonable in light of normal practice for the industry, the line of products 
involved, and the commercial services to be rendered. Sales representative and distributor agreements 
are available from STS lawyers.  

We Respect the Political Process and Comply with Laws Governing Political Contributions 

We comply fully with all laws regulating corporate and employee participation in public affairs, subject 
to the procedures set out below. STS encourages employees to exercise their rights and assume their 
obligations as citizens.  

Where applicable law permits corporations to make contributions to candidates for public office, such 
contributions must receive prior written approval from the Board of Directors.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These requirements pertain only to political contributions to be made with STS corporate funds. They do 
not restrict personal decisions by STS employees to make lawful personal contributions on their own. 
STS encourages this type of participation. Employees must not, however, be reimbursed by expense 
accounts or otherwise for such personal contributions.  

In some countries, political contributions by STS or its subsidiaries can be authorized only when 
permitted by applicable law, after prior written approval by the Board of Directors.  

We Deal Lawfully and Fairly in Government Procurement 

We conduct business with the governments of the countries in which we operate in accordance with 
high ethical standards. We recognize a special obligation to safeguard and preserve the good will and 
trust of those governments, their customers, and their taxpayers. Although fundamental principles of 
honesty are constants in all of STS’s businesses, a business that serves governments has additional 
requirements regarding the appearance and documentation of fairness and integrity.  

In addition to complying with applicable law and with the Code, we vigorously seek to control costs in 
accordance with local government procurement standards and regulations to obtain items for 
government contracts of appropriate quality at the best possible price.  

We Keep Accurate Company Records, Make Full, Fair, Accurate and Timely Disclosures 

We make full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosures in reports that STS files under 
applicable laws, rules and regulations and in other public communications. Dishonest reporting, both 
inside and outside the company will not be tolerated. This includes reporting or organizing information 
in an attempt to mislead or misinform. No entry will be made on the company’s books and records that 
intentionally hides or disguises the true nature of any transaction.  

STS has adopted controls to ensure the safeguarding of STS assets and the accuracy of its financial 
records and reports in accordance with internal needs and requirements of applicable laws and 
regulations. These established accounting practices and procedures must be followed to assure the 
complete and accurate recording of all transactions. All employees, within their area of responsibility, 
are expected to adhere to these procedures, as directed by the appropriate STS Manager.  

No employee or director may interfere with or seek to improperly influence, directly or indirectly, the 
auditing of STS’s financial records. Violation of these provisions shall result in disciplinary action up to 
and including termination and may also subject the violator to substantial civil and criminal liability.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an employee becomes aware of any improper transaction or accounting practice, he or she must 
immediately report the matter as described in Section 4 of this Code.  

Our obligation to record and report information accurately and honestly also applies to the accurate 
reporting of time worked, business expenses incurred and other business-related activities.  

We Manage Our Records Properly 

To operate effectively and efficiently, records must be managed properly. Documents needed for 
ongoing business or required by law must be retained, while all other documents should be discarded. If 
excess records are not discarded, the costs and distraction of records maintenance escalates continually.  

Documents should be discarded on an ongoing basis as they are no longer needed, and a general review 
of documents as to whether they are still needed is to be conducted at least once per year. In general, 
no document should be retained for more than two years unless it is needed for ongoing business or a 
law requires its retention.  

Those who are unsure about the need to keep particular documents should consult with their records 
administrator or supervisor, so that a judgment can be made as to the likelihood that the documents 
will be needed.  

Reporting and Information Resources 

You are required to promptly and accurately report any violations of the Code that come to your 
attention to your manager, Ethics Office, human resources manager or a member of the Board of 
Directors. If you are uncomfortable reporting a violation to these individuals or wish to report a violation 
anonymously, write to:  

STS Ethics Office  

Ms. Rasha I. Atallah 

Tel: ++96265802626 ext. 1110 

Shaban’s Building 

Amman, Jordan – 11195 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Or: STS Ethics Response Line: ++962795767989 

Or: STS Ethics Email: ethics@sts.com.jo 

You may do so without fear of retaliation.  

If you have any questions or doubt about any aspect of the Code, consult your STS Manager or the STS 
Ethics Office or another appropriate STS person.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Job Titles 

V1-2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER11: JOB TITLES 

Job titles are intended to reflect jobs and identify the nature and level of job duties being performed.  
Generally, job titles must reflect the field of work as well as the seniority of the position within a job family.  

This policy reflects the preferred and accepted practices of STS. The purpose is to provide managers with 
information and options for the application of position titles. 

The objectives of this policy are to:  

•  Provide managers with a framework for the use of staff position titles  
•  Assist managers to ensure that the position title accurately reflects the role.  
•  Provide a framework to ensure consistency in the application of position titles across STS 

GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND APPROACH 

STS is a diverse organisation with a range of positions and careers. The broad principles and approach of 
these guidelines are listed below.  

Position titles:  

•  Are gender neutral  
•  Accurately reflect the main purpose of the position and not inflate the purpose of the position  
• 
Indicate the relative level of the position within the STS hierarchy  
•  Are consistent with the principles of equity and fairness across STS 

GUIDELINES 

•  All positions within STS, whether existing or developed at a later stage, shall be allocated a 

position title in accordance with this policy. The policy is designed to help managers understand 
the types of acceptable position titles and how to apply them.  

•  All staff should have a title that designates their function, their seniority within the function and, 

where applicable, the Product or Solution, Sector or Technology they represent. 

•  All titles must be approved by HR before being relayed to new or existing employees to ensure 

consistency in the application of titles across STS departments and branches. 

•  Team Leader and Manager Titles are reserved only for incumbents that lead a team. 
•  An individual may only be given the title “Director” if they report to someone with a title higher 

than Director (i.e. Deputy GM, GM, EVP, etc…) 

•  This policy outlines titles for positions with ranks up to F3.  Any positions ranked G1 onwards are 

assigned titles by Management on a case-by-case basis. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 

In the case where are there are 2 or more titles for the same rank and in the same path, the 
employees manager, in consultation with HR, will select the title they deem most appropriate 
given the nature of the work of the position and in line with STS practices. 

•  The position title should be entered on the Human Resources Information System (MENA).  Two 
titles will be entered for each individual; the MENA title (“System Title”) which is in line with this 
policy and the “Customer Interfacing Title”.  The Customer Interfacing Title (will be known on 
the system as the “Business Card Title”) for most positions will be the same as the system title 
but will drop the division/department/sector/product qualifier as well as the Roman numeral 
where applicable.  In very rare circumstances exceptions may be made for a different Customer 
Interfacing Title.  Those need to be discussed between the relevant Manager and HR before 
being approved.  The “Customer Interfacing Title” will be the title that appears on business 
cards and email signatures.  The System Title will appear on all formal internal documentation 
such as the employment contract and any and all reports generated by the MENA system. 
•  Business Card titles will appear on business cards, employment reference letters, employment 

• 

certificate and email signatures.  
In most cases, this policy defines two different paths for titles.  One is a none-managerial path 
where an individual may develop and advance into roles up to rank F3 even if s/he is not managing 
people.  The second path outlines the managerial path where an employee manages 1 or more 
employees.   

 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Employee Separation 

V1-2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 20: EMPLOYEE SEPARATION 

RESIGNATION AND TERMINATION  

Separation  may  be  voluntary  (Resignation)  or  at  the  discretion  of  the  Management  (Termination).  
Management will endeavour to make the separation from the Company as simple a process as possible. 

RESIGNATION 

•  Resignation  takes  place  when  the  employee  submits,  in  writing,  their  decision  to  separate  and 

requests the Company to relieve him/her from its services. 

• 

It  is  expected  that  every  employee  submitting  a  resignation  serves  the  required  notice  period  in 
accordance with their employment contract.  An employee can use his/her remaining personal leave 
days to cover the notice period if he/she makes arrangements for the handover of their work prior to 
the last day of work and also gets the approval of their direct supervisor/manager.   

•  When the employee has complied with all terms and conditions including submitting the due notice 
in  writing, he/she shall  be  permitted to leave the  Company with all  rights,  privileges  and  benefits 
intact. 

•  Verbal  resignations  are  not  acceptable,  and  the  employee  must  subsequently  confirm  all  verbal 

notifications in writing.  The Company shall confirm acceptance by signing resignation letters. 

•  Notice period cannot be retracted unless this is approved by both the Company and the employee. 

•  The  process  is  documented  and  tracked  through  the  Clearance  system,  which  is  accessed  by  all 
involved  stakeholders  where  each  stakeholder  completes his/her  tasks  related  to  the  employee’s 
resignation & clearance.  

•  The  Finance  &  Accounting  Department  will  be  responsible  for  calculating  the  employee’s  final 
settlement in accordance with the employment contract and prevailing labour laws at the time of 
separation.   

•  Prior  to  the  departure  of  the  employee, the  Human  Resources  Department  will  conduct  an  “exit 

interview” to obtain feedback on the employee’s reasons for leaving. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TERMINATION 

•  Terminations  may  be  brought  about  as  a  result  of  a  government  directive,  commercial  pressure, 
Company  restructuring  process,  redundancy,  continued  poor  performance,  mental  imbalance  or 
other inadequacies, such as fraudulent activities, etc. 

•  Every employee whose services are terminated will receive a ‘notice of termination’ in writing and 
notice period provided as per the employee’s contract of employment and local labour laws.  The 
Company has the right to forego the notice period so long as it is paid to the employee in full just as 
it has the right to enforce it in full.  The only exception is where the local labour laws state otherwise.     

•  For other cases involving termination of service, the reference will always be the local Labour Law. 

GENERAL 

• 

In all instances, the Company will, at the outset recover all dues owed to the Company prior to making 
the final settlement with the employee. 

•  Final settlement amount will be transferred directly to the employee’s bank account, or a cheque be 
given, if preferred and no prior commitments are made to third parties (such as banks) otherwise. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Recruitment Policy 

V1-2021 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 2: RECRUITMENT 

RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION  

STS is committed to ensuring that all employees receive equal opportunity in all aspects of their work 
irrespective of gender, marital status, race, color, ethnic or national origin,  religion,  or disability.  This 
includes consistent and objective standards in recruitment, selection, appraisal, promotion, transfer, and 
compensation,  training,  and  personal  development.    However,  the  candidate  is  expected  to  fulfill  the 
following basic requirements: 

•  Meet the requirements of the position in terms of qualifications and experience 
•  Have a record of good conduct and behavior 
•  Be over 18 years of age 
•  Pass the Employee Screening Procedure  

REQUESTING NEW POSITIONS 

The budgeting process for new positions happens at the end of each year for the following calendar year. 
All new positions should go through the normal annual budgeting process for planning and approval.  

STS  follows  a  recruitment  plan  that  is  set  at  the  beginning  of  every  year  based  on  needed  skills  and 
competencies and depending on the annual budget and forecasts.  Any new positions that arise during 
the year, not previously accounted for in the approved recruitment plan must be approved by the CEO.  
Any  replacements  of  resigning  or  retiring  employees  requires  the  approval  of  the  General 
Managers/Directors of the hiring division. Approvals for replacements are not automatic and STS reserves 
the right to request justification for replacements. 

In the event the business needs dictate hiring for a new position outside of this plan, or making changes 
to an approved position, or even hiring a replacement for a resigned employee; additional business 
justifications and approvals will be needed and will be collected using the Recruitment System through a 
Job Requisition. HR may not start the candidate sourcing process for any position until the Job 
Requisition has been completed and approved by all concerned parties. 

PROCESS 

Hiring Managers are required to fill a Job Requisition through the Recruitment System whenever a 
department has a need to: 

•  Create and fill a new position, or 
•  Replace a resigned or terminated employee in the positions s/he has vacated, or 
•  Make any changes to the positions approved in the Recruitment Plan; changes include the 

following: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Seniority Level (Rank & Title) 
2.  Package 
3.  Starting Date 
4.  Location 
5.  Cancelling or putting the position on hold 

The Hiring Manger must ensure that the job description is attached to the Job Requisition. 

Once a position has been approved, the requirements are considered final, and HR can start the 
sourcing stage.  

STS’ Human Resources Department reviews and monitors the entire hiring process and is responsible for 
developing and maintaining the Recruitment Plan.   

POSTING OF JOB OPENINGS 

STS uses various media to announce job openings.  Positions will be posted by providing the recent and 
relevant job description and person specifications to be announced online on the Career’s page of the STS 
website, and through social media (Facebook, LinkedIn, etc.) on official STS pages.  Only HR is permitted 
to announce STS openings.  Anyone wanting to spread the word about openings should do so by sharing 
and/or reposting official HR posts.  No one has the authority to directly announce or post openings on 
behalf of STS except the HR department even if the openings are in their own department.  

EMPLOYEE SCREENING 

The Company is committed to abiding by Local Labor Laws.  The preferred candidate will have provided 
information both written and verbal in support of his or her application. The purpose of this screening 
procedure is to ensure that as much as possible of the information provided can be verified before 
employment.  

Each employee is asked to submit proof of identity including his/her national ID number (for local hires 
and where applicable) and valid passports for non-nationals hired in any of our offices. 

The company will submit for approval requests to issue work permits for any non-national without a work 
permit wishing to work in any of our offices.  The contract of employment and all the terms within will 
only be valid in the condition that a work permit is secured.  

In accordance with HR Security Policy, the specific screening activities that should be applied in 
any case will depend on several factors in line with the level of risk associated with the role. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below provides initial guidance regarding the screening checks: 

SCREENING CHECK 

CRITERIA FOR SELECTION 

Personal References 

Work References 

In all cases 

In all cases 

Academic and Professional Qualifications 

In all cases 

Confirmation of Identity 

Social Security Number 

Criminal Records Check 

In all cases 

In all cases 

In all cases 

Work History Verification 

For roles with an annual salary above $100K 

Driving History Check 

Where the candidate will be required to drive a company 
vehicle as part of the job 

EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES OF EXISTING EMPLOYEES 

•  STS prohibits the employment of spouses.  If at any time during their employment, 2 employees 
become officially engaged to be married, then one of them will be required to resign their position 
at STS immediately upon request from the company. 

•  Due to the possibility of disagreement or conflict of interest, the Company does not prefer the 
employment of relatives.  However, STS looks at each case based on different factors and will 
decide on the hiring of a relative on a case-by-case basis.   

DEPLOYMENT FROM WITHIN 

STS is dedicated to assisting employees to reach their professional goals through internal promotion and 
transfer opportunities.  One of the tools the Company makes available to employees in managing their 
career is STS internal job postings.  This procedure enables current employees to apply for any available 
position before the position is advertised outside of the Company.  Internal job opportunities are regularly 
posted for employees. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To apply for an opening:  

Step 1: Eligibility Requirements 

•  Are a current, regular full time STS employee.  
•  Have  been  in  their  current position for  at  least  six  months.   (Exceptions to  this  six-month 
requirement  can  be  made  by  his/her  current  Manager  and  should  be  consistent  with 
Company business needs).  

•  The  Head  of  releasing  department  and  the  Head  of  hiring  department  both  approve  the 

transfer.  

•  His/her performance meets established work standards in their current position.  
•  He/she has not had an employee disciplinary action within the last six months preceding their 

application for a transfer.  

•  He/she is not following a performance improvement plan for their current position.  
•  He/she meets the qualifications listed for the position on the job posting. 

Step 2: Application  

Employees must send their CVs to Human Resources before a formal interview is scheduled. All 
applications will be screened by HR who will then select the best suited candidate and confirm all 
eligibility requirements are met.  

Notes:  

•  Employees interested in applying for an open position should contact HR directly for additional 
job information and cannot contact the hiring manager. Hiring Managers also cannot approach 
employees from other Divisions. Human Resources will keep their inquiries regarding a posted 
position confidential.  

•  Factors such as the urgency to fill the position, status of the employee's present workload, and 
difficulty in filling the employee's present position are to be considered in determining a transfer 
date.  

•  The releasing manager and the transferring employee will complete the Final Review section of 
the employee's Performance Management Form within 2 weeks of the transfer date.  The hiring 
manager will receive a copy of the Performance Management  Form and consider that input in 
determining the employee's new objectives. 

•  Typically, the employee's salary will not change due to a transfer, unless the position is considered 
a promotional transfer, in which case a promotional salary increase may be considered in line with 
the company policy and regular increase schedules.  

•  The Company may require employees to transfer to specific positions based on business needs 

and conditions.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Workvivo Acceptable Usage Policy 

V1-2022 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
CHAPTER 21: STS WORKVIVO ACCEPTABLE USAGE POLICY  

POLICY OVERVIEW AND OBJECTIVES 

Workvivo is an employee engagement platform that is designed to connect together STS employees to 
its organisation and culture.  

The aim of this document is to provide information on STS’s content moderation policy and guidelines to 
ensure appropriate use of the Workvivo platform.  

This policy must be read in conjunction with all other STS employee policies applicable as per your 
relevant geographic location and site. 

APPLIES TO ALL EMPLOYEES 

Employees should be aware that STS contributes to and regularly monitors Workvivo in reference to its 
work and to keep abreast of general commentary. STS does not monitor Workvivo for specific employee 
content on an ongoing basis, however employees should not expect privacy in this regard. STS reserves 
the right to utilise for disciplinary purposes any information that could have a negative effect on the 
company or its employees, which management comes across in regular monitoring, or is brought to the 
company’s attention by an employee or a Workvivo administrator.  

All employees are prohibited from using or publishing information on any social media sites, where such 
use has a potential to negatively affect the company or its staff, and STS reserves the right to suspend 
usage and or access to Workvivo if it feels it is necessary do so. 

SCOPE  

This policy applies to all employees and users of STS  

GUIDELINES FOR USE 

All Workvivo users should adhere to the following guidelines when sharing content on the platform: 

•  Refrain from any conduct that is not considered appropriate or acceptable in the workplace.  
•  What you post is your responsibility 
•  Show respect for other users and their comments and interactions.  
•  Share work-related content only 
•  Keep your content simple 
• 

It is prohibited to duplicate or disseminate content from Workvivo to individuals outside STS. 

 
 
 
 
• 

• 

It is not allowed to advertise commercial products and services unless they are relevant and are 
associated with STS.  
Immediately report any inappropriate activity or behaviour regarding the STS, its employees or 
third parties.  

•  Should you realize you made a mistake; immediately rectify according to the guidelines 
•  Use of Workvivo must not interfere with normal work duties and commitments.  
•  The following content that contains any of the following is strictly prohibited: 

o  Obscene comments 
o  Profanities 
o  Spam, or spam-like messages 
o  Comments of a discriminatory nature 
o  Bullying directed towards others 
o  Content that is confidential or contains business-sensitive information about the STS, its 
clients or partners including any proprietary information (unless it has already been 
released into the public domain). 

o  Content that might reasonably be expected to have the effect of damaging the 

reputation or professional standing of the STS, its clients, or partners except to the 
extent of local legislation. 

o  Content that has the potential to negatively affect the STS, its clients, partners, or 

employees except to the extent of local legislation.   

o  Content that supports illegal activities under country specific law; 

STS reserves the right to remove from the Workvivo platform any content that it or its designated 
content moderators interpret as being in breach of any aspect of this policy.  

STS reserves the right to remove from the Workvivo platform any content that it or its designated 
content moderators interpret as being in breach of any aspect of this policy.  

POSTING TO SPACES 

Content shared within individual spaces will be shared among Space members only. Spaces may be 
Corporate (all Staff with an STS e-mail address are automatically enrolled), Private (by invitation only) or 
Open (anyone can view or join by request). All members of a Space have posting rights. Space Owners 
also assume the role of Moderator, ensuring content is appropriate. 

MODERATON 

STS wishes all employees to feel engaged and listened to. It also wants to ensure all posts are relevant 
and beneficial to everyone. For this reason, content moderation is in place on the site to ensure content 
is appropriate, fair, and inclusive.  

STS reserves the right to remove from the Workvivo platform any content that it or its designated 
content moderators interpret as being in breach of any aspect of this policy. 

 
 
 
Note: There is a ‘Report Post’ function - available to all users - at the top right-hand corner of each post 
(shown as ‘…’). The moderator for that area of content will be alerted and will make a judgement call, 
based on this policy document, on whether or not the post needs to be removed. The Moderator’s 
decision is final. 

MONITORING, SEARCHES, AND NO EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY   

Users should understand that they have no expectation of privacy in any activities conducted on 
Workvivo. STS has the right to gain access to any information that is transmitted, received, or stored by 
Workvivo. STS has the right to gain access to this information with or without the user’s knowledge, 
consent, or approval. 

ENFORCEMENT  

Non-compliance with the general principles and conditions of this policy and the related Information 
Security policies may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal. This policy is not 
exhaustive. In situations that are not expressly governed by this policy, employees must ensure that 
their use of Workvivo is at all times appropriate, consistent with their responsibilities towards STS and in 
compliance with its policies. If an employee has any doubts or queries regarding this policy or any of its 
requirements, they should consult with their manager. 

DECLARATION MESSAGE 

I have read a copy of the STS Workvivo Acceptable Usage policy. I clearly understand all the policies and 
procedures outlined in this document and have read, understood and accept the Terms of Use for the 
platform. 

 
 
 ' 


 ' STS POLICIES MANUAL 

Employee Grievance 

V1-2017 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 16: EMPLOYEE GRIEVANCE 

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES  

•  The  resolution  of  personnel  problems  is  in  the  interest  of  both  employers  and  employees  as 
complaints  can  interfere  with  morale,  quality  and  quantity  of  work  performance  and  job 
satisfaction.  The Company believes in listening to its employees, and therefore adopts an open-
door policy to keep communication channels open, based on mutual respect and the readiness of 
each party to listen to the other. 

•  A  grievance  is  an  employee’s  complaint  about  an  act  or  a  condition  affecting  the  work 
environment  which  is  a  source  of  dissatisfaction  to  the  employee,  and  which  has  not  been 
resolved through informal discussion with the person’s supervisor or other appropriate official. 

•  The complaint must be one that is alleged to deprive an employee of a right or benefit authorized 
under the framework of STS’s employment policies.  The complaint may also concern a practice 
or  condition  (i.e.  work  environment  matter)  which  is  perceived  as  a  more  general  source  of 
injustice or as a detriment to safety and/or health or which is not within the limits of acceptable 
employment practices in the country of operation. 

•  The Company will attempt to provide the employee with a fair solution 

NON- GRIEVANCE ACTIONS 

The grievance procedure is not used for the following actions, which are handled under other 
procedures, or are not subject to appeal: 

•  Complaints against a particular work assignment or the transfer of employees, which is to meet 

business needs. 

•  Non selection for promotions or awards. 
•  Position grade level. 
•  Salary and benefits. 
•  Working hours. 

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES 

•  The  Company  considers  each  complaint  separately.    To  minimize  the  chances  of  any 
misunderstanding, the employee is asked to discuss their complaint first with his/her Manager 
within five days of the initial complaint.   

•  The Manager should investigate and try to solve the problem within three working days, unless 

the matter requires a longer time. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 

• 

If the  employee does not receive a response or acceptable solution from their Manager, then 
he/she has the right to lodge a complaint with the HR Department.  After that, a meeting will be 
scheduled and within three working days (or as agreed), the HR Department will respond to the 
problem. 

Issues may be resolved directly through HR, or in cases of more complicated complaints, HR may 
present a case to Management for their input and assistance in the resolution.   

•  Management ‘s decision will be final and should be acceptable to all parties concerned.  Every 
employee has the right to appeal to the Executive Management Committee to settle a dispute, 
but this should be considered as a last resort. 

 
 
 
 
 
 ' 


 ' 